---
title: What Keeps Me Up At Night
category: general
---
When asked "what keeps you up at night?", most people stick with things that matter to them personally. The worry that my child will turn to drugs. The worry that my wife will leave me. The heat-death of the universe. Things like that. I recently started to codify the one thing that keeps me up at night, but today, I added a second thing. So I dedicate this post to codifying both of them in a semi-public space.

The first thing that keeps me up all night is something I like to call the Interstellar Evolution Equation. I believe that there is an equation that is currently impossible to calculate. On the left side of the equation is all the variables necessary for a planet to support evolving life. The main thing that we know ALL life needs is... stuff. Life needs things to live. Specifically, life needs a variety of things. Life arose on Earth mostly because it's the only planet in our solar system where water can exist in all three forms. I imagine that this equation also considers a planet's size, distance from a star, and the presence of resources in specific quantities or ratios. If these variables stray too much, then intelligent life will not evolve on the given planet. Of course, we only have limited knowledge about what caused life to evolve on our own planet and we haven't found another example that we can examine, so this side of the equation is currently impossible to calculate. But I believe that it has an answer.

On the right side of the equation is all the variables necessary for evolving life to achieve interstellar travel. Things like time, individual ideas, historical knowledge (or immortality, har har), and most of all, enough resources to fail and succeed enough to figure out the technology necessary for interstellar travel. This side of the equation is already impossible to calculate since we have no model for evolved life that has made it to interstellar travel. It might not have a solution at all. Maybe the need for individual ideas and the individualistic society that is necessary for that can't last long enough before destroying itself to reach interstellar travel. But that's not what keeps me up at night.

What keeps me up at night is the idea that the sum of the right side of the equation, everything that life needs to reach the point of interstellar travel, is greater than the left side of the equation, everything that must be true about a planet for evolving life to safely come into existance on it. The reason we might not have met aliens could be that it is mathmaticaly and physically impossible, given the rules of our universe, for a planet that is capable of housing evolving life to last long enough and provide enough resources for that life to escape that planet and visit others.

And all of this came out of me looking at the fleet of ships in Star Trek: Picard, and wondering how much of the Earth's resources had to be mined in order to create that fleet. they probably used up all of the aluminum, tin, copper, and other minerals to produce just a fraction. And yes, I know they very likely mined other planets, but that's because they could already reach them.

And now, the second thing that is going to keep me awake at night, is ChatGPT.

We've already seen the beginnings of a revolution with AI Generated Art. Soon that's going to extend to absolutely everything that involves written text. EVERYTHING. ChatGPT is already capable of writing convincing cover letters, movie scripts, research papers, novels, love letters, stock price tracking algorithms, and even entire computer programs. We're really about to reach the point where you can just tell a computer "Make game", and it'll just do it. We have amassed enough knowledge in a digital format that this is going to replace absolutely everything where the product is text. It's not even going to be a matter of people losing their jobs to this thing and things like it. Entire career paths are going to disappear. Up to and including the schooling necessary to achieve said career. I suppose there will be a new career for ChatGPT Curator, but maybe not. Maybe it'll be a while and maybe I won't have to worry about it in my lifetime, but I have a son now, and my view of the future is considerably longer than it used to be. It might be true that the output of ChatGPT is stilted and reaks of machine if you try to give it a prompt to create a creative work, but that won't last long. There are already people asking it to generate new Seinfeld episodes, and then commenting on how funny they are.

We are going to have to rapidly change to a society where people don't need to work to survive, or a lot of people are going to burn in unexpected places. That's what keeps me up at night now.
