---
title: Going Back
category: web development
---
I switched back to Bootstrap for this website, but with some pretty big updates to make the coloring resemble what I had on Materialize. I had kind of reached the limit of what I could do with Materialize. I'll often go browsing through the docs, looking for new components I can use for inspiration. Materialize doesn't really have that much compared to Bootstrap. Plus, it was really easy to add style overrides to change the theme of Bootstrap to look more like what I had before.

I'm starting to feel the stress physically now. My new project is ramping up slowly but surely. I've developed a knot in my back and I'm starting to have trouble remembering things related to other projects. I'm making decisions slower for no reason. I just feel like I'm going to be inadequate.

I just got out of a meeting with our "software architect," probably the most senior engineer who still does actual development. She gave me a tour of continuous integration and answered some questions I had about unit testing. I think I'm going to be ok. I just need to stop looking at this as me needing to prove myself and more as another opportunity to work with people I can learn from. Hopefully, they'll be a little smarter than me and I can get exposure to more unfamiliar libraries and methodologies. I think I've been by myself for too long. My current partner has been pretty good, but not experienced enough to have the confidence to propose different methods of doing things. Plus, we've been working on a 17 year old project, which means it's set in its ways and would be very difficult to make interesting. We're just in the mode of "enhance, but maintain" in our development. Which is almost as boring as just straight maintenance.

So my latest brainstorming sessions have revolved around making content editting easier on one of my freelance projects. Currently, whenever someone wants a content update, they have to send the content to me, which usually is in the form of a Word document. It's up to me to translate that into HTML, properly source control it, and then upload it to the site. That's mostly fine. From the stories the previous webmaster has told me, the people tend to go hog-wild when given control over their own content. If I can only trust myself and my team to update the content properly, then I should try to make the process as painless for myself as possible. The website is PHP and I thought it might be cool to use Markdown, like this blog does. Unfortunately, there's a lot of stuff in the content that's not just text. There's a lot of special alignment, and tables, and special coloring...it just doesn't seem worth it. Maybe there's a better option out there...like the SCEditor I have on this site! I can try feeding the Word document content through that to transform it into simpler HTML and then put it on the site. I think I'll try that the next time there's a content update.

Another thing I want to do is use more of the MVC framework already implemented on the site. Right now, it's really only using Controllers. No Models and no Forms Validation, both of which would do wonders to clean up the code. That'll be my project over the summer, I think.

Man, now I really need to fix that paginator...