---
title: Nothing to Do
category: web development
---
After a hellish week of lost productivity and having this breaking overnight, I've finally reached the point where I have nothing to do again. I fixed up my radial menu a little, got the hamburger icon properly aligned and spaced out. It's using a span, a before, and an after selector so that the lines can move via CSS3 transitions. It's not a true hamburger icon. That makes it a little hard to deal with, but I finally found where all the stylings are in the code I copied off the internet and altered to suit my site. It's still pretty cool, if not as convenient as the normal navbar I used to have.

I still haven't gotten over that hump of thinking I have to keep this site consistant. I can seriously do whatever I want to this site, but I'm settled on the current design and purpose and feel weird thinking about changing it. Even the radial menu looked weird for the first couple days. The trouble is, I never was much of an idea guy. I have all these skills with all these tools, and no capacity to think up new and interesting ideas of what to do with them on my own. Maybe the trouble is that I only ever like building the website, never the work that'd go into whatever real-world work would need to happen to support it or provide the service the website advertises. Maybe I should start branching out into other areas of programming, like machine learning or something. I've been hunting around a little for courses in web interface design, but its all so technical, which I already know about. I think, if I was going to get into web design, I'd need a mentor. Someone who could tell me when I fail and can help me figure out how to improve. I really know nothing about it. Everything I hear always sounds too opinionated to be actual design guidelines or best practices.

At least now I have a meeting or two to keep me busy. Maybe this will be slightly interesting. It's a presentation being given by my old project manager, who I never saw much of while I was working under him, but I didn't agree with most of his opinions. Most of my coworkers have agreed that his most prominent idea is also one of his least useful. I pushed against it a little, but I'm not the type to question how useful a new feature will be. I don't know the customers well enough to make those kinds of judgements, so I end up leaving them up to the designers and expressing my opinion if I feel like something is waaaaaaaay out of line, and I've gotten into arguments about stuff like this with designers and managers. I've usually lost, but I've gotten a very satisfactory "I told you so" opportunity when it didn't work.