---
title: Naming Things
category: rant
---
This week I discovered another reason why I will either never be a designer or never understand how marketing and business people make decisions. Or rather, don't make decisions. We've been working on this project for 6 months now. The front-end design has been relatively finalized for 3. We've known the entire time what this thing is supposed to do. And no matter how much pressure we put on them, they won't come up with a name for the product. I was lightly scolded last week for trying to lead the conversation that would have come up with some final candidates. I was told that it wasn't my job or my problem. But now I get to sit here, waiting, (NOT) patiently for a name. I need it to tell our IT department what the web address is going to be, and our designer needs it so they can design a logo. It's just so frustrating. I've given up yelling at him for it and I've given up caring about it. I don't have the experience or expertise to pick a good name, but I don't think they do either. So we're going to end up with a utilitarian name that doesn't describe what the application does in the slightest, and we're going to get it in about a year.

Maybe it won't be so bad. At least I got to wash my hands of it. Now I'll just be laughed at by proxy and I'll get to say "I tried to stop them, but they didn't think I had enough of a design or marketing background to make a good decision, so I was dismissed." What a life it is to not have control over your own projects. At least I got to name this little slice of the internet and all my smaller projects. My own little piece of the internet where I can do what I like and show what I want to show (and rant when I want to rant).