---
title: Patience
category: rant
---
I'm starting to discover that my patience is dependent on others' patience in me. I don't seem to possess my own independent sense of urgency. I only feel urgency when I'm being rushed by other people. I hate putting undue pressure on myself or others, so I don't end up actually feeling pressure unless it is explicitly exerted on me by someone else. I'm also discovering that I'm definitely a yes-man. I have happily taken on more project work than I'm comfortable with and I can't seem to bring myself to say no to it. Part of that seems to be because I don't know for sure that I can't do it or if I'm just trying to convince myself that I can't do it because I'm afraid of failing. I continue to remind myself that I don't have very much experience, even though I've been in this business for 8 years. I don't count the first 4 because I only worked on one project and had zero oversight. No one looking through my stuff to make sure I did things right. Then I spent the next 2 years in a project bubble, being told exactly what to do by people who didn't have to answer to the rest of the company. So it's only in the past 2 years that I've had any exposure to the rest of the company. Crap...even just by writing it I can tell that's a load of bull. 2 years is enough time to be exposed to the rest of the company, but I still don't feel like I know enough. I also can't seem to care enough to know. I hate that I'm trusted to make decisions, then scolded when I didn't know I needed to ask for more information. You asked me to start building this project from scratch. You didn't tell me that our universal framework was done and that I should have used that. You didn't tell me that there were already decisions made to use this technology or that technology. I'm all for being unified across the company, but I can't do that if I don't know that it's an active company initiative. Now I have to do the coding equivalent of pulling out a circulatory system to replace it with a new one. It's simple enough, conceptually, but it's going to be damned bloody.

The other thing that keeps coming up is what should we do when all our projections say we'll miss our deadline. I have no fucking clue!!! The only answers I can ever come up with are either work longer and harder or reduce the amount of work we have to get done. I'm not sure if that first one will every be viable with my team. This whole thing is a complete mess.

Another thing going wrong is I feel disconnected from my department. We used to have weekly meetings. Although they were probably the most unproductive part of my day, since there was never anything useful except for new member introductions. But at least there was that. I see a ton of people I don't recognize sitting alongside other developers, so I'm...guessing they're in my department. But I have no way of knowing. No one has come by with their mentor for introductions in months. The last one I got ended up working under me for a while, then leaving after 3 weeks.

And my other project manager is just chugging along, assuming that it has more of me and my teammate than it actually does. It's seriously the lowest company priority. It's lucky it has a team at all. Although I've heard that might change in the near future. The entire team is being pulled off to do other stuff, instead of just the developers. Frankly, I'm glad to be leaving that project behind. It was almost as boring as the first project I worked on. Although, I might miss not having to do very much. I kind of enjoyed working on a low-risk project like that, making simple changes, just doing whatever the business dreamed up. But now my break is over and I've been shifted into high gear.