---
title: Global Game Jam 2016
category: game development
---
I finally made it back. It's been 3 years since my first in-person game jam. It's good to be at least working in the same room as other creative working people again. I'm kind of disappointed in the first day though. For two reasons. One is that I arrived late. I missed the keynote video, the brainstorming, and the team forming. So I'm working by myself on this project for now. The second kind of turns the first into a good thing though. Almost every team is using Unity as their engine. I have no idea how to use Unity. I would have been much more comfortable if they had stuck with GameMaker Studio. But I suppose things have to evolve and mature at some point. Maybe this will finally inspire me to try learning Unity in earnest. It's getting better and more and more useful.

For now, I'm sticking to the engine I've been using most recently, Love2D. I feel like a real hipster, using an engine no one at this event has ever heard of. My game idea is insanely simple. It's another flight avoidance game, where you are a ship or a car moving up the screen while death and obstacles rain down on your head. My big goal is to write a timeline of events and match the game events to music. We'll see how this goes.

The theme this year is "ritual". Most of the other team immediately thought of rituals of demonic summoning. Either the players are trying to summon some demon or elder god, or trying to prevent the summoning. Me? I thought of human ritual, like the morning ritual people do in the...morning. That led me to think of a sunrise and the process of waking up. So the game is flight avoidance, but I'm using music that evokes the feeling of morning and the player has to last until the sun finishes rising. At that point, they will have successfully "woken up" and be ready for the day. I haven't decided what to make the player sprite into that will fit with that theme, so I'm sticking with my trusty blue box for now.


Note to self: BRING LAPTOP NEXT TIME!!!!
