---
title: Dark Souls Connections
category: gaming
---
I finished Dark Souls 3 the other day. I tried really hard to not use a guide this time around. Predictably, I missed about half the game. I count at least 3 bosses I just never encountered and I didn't find any NPCs after the first couple of hours. But I think I figured out why I really liked DS1 more. It's because the story was tighter and the bosses had more connections to the world and to each other. Let's see...

Gwyn fought the dragons alongside Seath, Nito, and the Bed of Chaos (Witch of Izalith). Gwyn gave birth to three children, one of which was Dark Sun Gwyndolin. Gwyn had four trusted knights, Knight Artorias, Dragons Slayer Ornstein, King's Blade Ciarin, and Hawkeye Gough. He also had an executioner who was fond of cannibalism, Smough. He had a favored group of Four Kings of New Londo, who he gave a portion of his Lord Soul to. Artorias had a trusted companion in Great Grey Wolf Sif and attempted to vanquish the Abyss by fighting Manus, Father of the Abyss. Seath secluded himself in the Grand Archives to research immortality and magic. He also experimented in creating false dragons, giving rise to the Moonlight Butterfly and Crossbreed Priscilla. The Witch of Izalith turned herself into the Bed of Chaos in an attempt to use her Chaos Flame to relink the fire. She had a number of children, including Chaos Witch Quelaag and Ceaseless Discharge. Ceaseless Discharge was given a ring to help with the lava spewing out of his body. He lost it and his arm, which turned into the Centipede Demon. Nito lorded over the dead, and held on to the Rite of Kindling. Pinwheel stole the rite and attempted to use it to create more undead. Of 26 lifebar bosses, that's 16 interconnected characters. The leftovers are Asylum Demon, Bell Gargoyles, Black Dragon Kalameet, Capra Demon, Demon Firesage, Gaping Dragon, Iron Golem, Sanctuary Guardian, Stray Demon, and Taurus Demon. Technically, you could link all the demons back to the Bed of Chaos and Kalameet back to Gwyn. Leaving only 4 completely unrelated bosses.

By contrast, you have Aldrich, Devourer of Gods, who was worshipped or aided by Pontiff Sulyvahn. Sulyvahn was in the habit of giving his soldiers rings that would turn them into feral beasts, like Vordt and the Dancer. He was in turn served by the Deacons of the Deep. The lords of cinder are sort of linked to the Soul of Cinder, but completely separately and only indirectly. That's maybe 5 out of 20 lifebar bosses that are interconnected. The rest are all basically independent.

Now, this might be because I haven't put the exhaustive research into DS3, so maybe there are more connections to be made. But I don't think so.