---
title: Node
category: gaming
---
I've been digging a little deeper into learning NodeJS in my spare time while between projects. I learned that the technology stack of choice is MEAN: MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, and NodeJS. I tried following a tutorial on them, but something else is installed on my computer that's interfering with MongoDB. It's probably IIS or something, but it was enough to kill my motivation for the day. Not that I had all that much to begin with, or else I wouldn't be writing here.

It's patch day for FFXIV. I'm not as excited for this one as I have been for previous ones. I might be starting to burn out again. I've been taking things a lot slower than I have been for the past two years. I've been trying to branch out, but no other game has grabbed me quite as hard as Ori or Dark Souls did. I tried Sunless Sea for a while, but there actually wasn't enough to it. It wasn't big enough for me. Sure there were terrible things in the Unterzee that would menace me, but the sea creatures just didn't feel overwhelming enough and I was disappointed that I couldn't read a blurb about everything. I could only learn about places where my ship could actually dock. I wanted to learn a bit about those whirlpools that I kept running in to, or encounter bigger sea creatures. The trailer showed that there's a giant eye that can open on the sea floor, but all it does is stare at you and increase the terror of your crew. I expected it to start trying to swallow you or something. There just wasn't enough game in the game to keep me interested.

I still have MGSV and The Witcher III, which would probably keep me occupied for a good long time if I ever got around to trying them out. I'm a little put off because the Steam Controller doesn't actually seem to work that well with games like that. The right-side trackpad isn't very responsive. Maybe it will just take some more getting used to, but I don't think anything will come close to the responsiveness of the Playstation controllers. They got something really right with that design.

Back to NodeJS. One of my coworkers successfully set up a multiplayer server that we dabble in from time to time. He used NodeJS as the server and the HTML5 canvas as the front-end (plus some other client-side technology). I got inspired for a bit and set up my own NodeJS server with a LÖVE client. I've been thinking about trying to build a multiplayer game to play across my home network, but I've been kind of stuck on what type of game to make. I really want to use the HV soundtrack that I picked up a few years ago, and that works really well with a shoot-em-up style game. Maybe I'll stick with something simpler for the first try. A small arena-combat style game like Move or Die or Starwhal. That'd be kind of fun, and a little easier on other people. Plus, KennyNL already has an [asset pack](http://kenney.nl/assets/topdown-shooter) that I might be able to use. The biggest tripping point for me is going to be how to divide the code. If I'm thinking about this the right way, I'm going to have to write all the game logic on the client in LÖVE, and AGAIN on the server in Javascript. All the client should do is asset-related: draw images, play sound effects, and play music. It'll have to be smart enough to work the game logic across the next few frames, but all the actual game rules will live on the server. That's where all the processing will have to be, which will be a pretty big task since I've no idea what I'm going.