---
title: New Year
category: gaming
---
Now we get to see if the archive loop I set up will archive posts across years properly...

HAPPY NEW YEAR!!!

First post, over a week after the new year has started. Woohoo! I had a wonderful holiday break from work. I did nothing productive and it was glorious. I suppose that's no ttotally true. I did spend half a day working on my volunteer project for the convention, but that wasn't very much time at all.

I played and beat Ori and the Blind Forest over the break (twice). It was pretty cool. Ori is a MetroidVania 2D platformer that looks like it was drawn by VanillaWare (Odin Sphere and Muramasa). The gameplay is nothing groundbreaking, the story is well written and exciting, and the art is freaking gorgeous. I played it through twice almost without thinking about it, it was so enjoyable.

Now I'm back in the rut of finding another game to immerse myself in. I'm up to Manus in my third playthrough of Dark Souls and I've added Dark Souls III to my wishlist so I'll get notified when it comes out. I splurged a little and bought Witcher 3 and Metal Gear Solid 5, but was disappointed when neither would work on my media center/steam box. It's my own fault for settling for installing a 32but version of Windows on it. I tried another indie Steam game called Jotun, which is also pretty, but the environments are kind of badly designed. The camera swings around to focus on things you can't get to yet sometimes, just because you wandered too close to a certain wall, and having a top-down exploration-based game structure where the camera is zoomed in tight on your character does not make for good exploration. I still have to finish the last chapter of The Wolf Among Us, but my wife wants to watch me finish that, so I'm kind of beholden to her moods. I also tried an older game called A.R.E.S, another 2D platformer, but more like MegaMan then Metroid. It wasn't as good as Ori either. Finally, I tried Dustforce, which has been sitting in my library for a long time now. It has some of the clunkiest controls I've ever played. The character doesn't slow-fall from jumps. Once you reach the peak of your jump, it's like you get a rocket attached to your head, forcing you down at max speed. Also, every time you touch the ceiling or a wall, the game assumes you want to wall-jump or wall-run, except when it doesn't. I may just have to get used to it, but I have higher standards at the moment.

What else is there? Not much, really. Vacation was games, games, and more games.