---
title: Technical Happenings
category: general
---
I just did a quick bit of experimentation, and managed to import this blog as a web project into Visual Studio, then hook up a quick script that builds it through Jekyll and deploys it to my little Node server. Hooray!

Another cool thing I did was reformatting my spare SD card with RasPlex and turned my Raspberry Pi into a Plex client. Now we can move my spare TV that I'm not using into the sun room, hook up the Pi, and have another TV room out there with all the atmosphere we could ask for. As long as that room gets decent wireless reception, that's going to be awesome.

I've also set up our movie getter, finally. The UI isn't as slick as the TV getter, but it's far less important. To my wife, at least.

I fixed my in-law's laptop the other day. He had origially installed Ubuntu to get an OS for free, but they both absolutely hated it. So he caved and bought a copy of Windows, but couldn't figure out how to get the drivers for the built-in wireless card installed. So, he sic'd me on it. I likened it to being a professional weightlifter, and being asked to clean out a friend's front yard by moving a bunch of big rocks into the backyard. Similar to what you do professionally, but far easier and very productive for someone you care about. I even had a bit of fun doing it too. And now I have a pair of happy in-laws, eating up my wireless bandwidth.

I've been working on a portfolio page for myself. Seems like it'd be a good thing to have. Unfortunately, I'm not exactly sure how much of my previous projects I can put in there. I definitely can't put the work from my first job in there, since it was an internal-use-only type of application. I think I kept some of the source code, but I'm not sure how sensitive the code is. Same with the project from my current job. I mean, I know I can put all I like of my personal projects up there. They're all stupid small games I've put together. Although they're not really indicitive of my skill on a team. Building a portfolio as a backend developer is really hard. I haven't the slightest idea how to make it appealing or what to show that expresses my work and skill. People talk about solving unique problems over the course of a project, but I'm not sure if any of the problems I came up against were all that interesting. Fortunately for me, I'm probably not going to have any use for this for a while. My resume will probably be enough, although it'd be a good selling point to say that I have my own Github account with a few projects in it.

That's another thing. Forums go on and on about contributing to open source projects, but I don't use that much open source software. I have a suite of things I'm very comfortable with and don't have many issues with. I hardly ever find bugs in things. The one time I had a feature request for something was when I had to hack together a burstParticles() function for a game I was building in LÖVE. I thought it'd be cool to put it into the base library, but as soon as I brought the request up to the inner party, they stuck it in the next version right away. I didn't have any time to learn enough C++ to build it myself.

Notepad++ and Visual Studio have pretty robust plugin libraries that I could build stuff for, if I could come up with an additional feature I'd like to have in the program. Firefox works as well as I'd ever want it to. I can't really think of anything that would make my internet browsing experience any better. Guess I'm just too conformist. I learn to live with what I've got rather than try to find a way to improve it.

I suppose the biggest cause of this is that, when I get home from my programming job, the last thing I want to do is more programming. I exercise my brain enough during the day. All I want to do is work on something simple, like this website!!