---
title: Patching
category: web development
---
I find myself opening up this blog and just staring at it for a while. The Materialize stying is starting to grow on me. I didn't like how the sidebar content moves below the paginator on small screens, but I don't think I can do anything about that. Jekyll only has one "content" tag. I might be able to do something with URL detection, but whatever. I also limited the paginator to only show 2 pages in either direction when navigating between them. I'm up to 8 pages in the blog now, and all those numbers were wrapping to a new line on small screens. That presented a new issue. If the viewer is even a couple pages through the site, they can't easily go back to the home page if they're scrolled down to the paginator. So I fixed the navbar to the top of the screen. The next thing to do will probably be add a mobile-friendly favicon to the site. I've read that it's possible to add a favicon that's optimized for display on mobile home screens, so something nice will show up if the user adds the website as an icon to their main screen.

I finished watching Kuroko no Basket the other day. Clips of it were starting to show up on my YouTube recommended videos section and it looked like just the thing I needed. A good simple show with flashy effects and hot-tempered protagonists. It's DragonBasketball Z and that's exactly what I needed after the deep, philosophical experiences that were Psycho Pass, Paranoia Agent, and Amnesia. It was another one of those dumb, awesome series that's directed at teenage boys. I marathoned the crap out of it and kind of want to watch it again.

There is one issue though, and it's a problem every series like this has. If the high schoolers are this good, what are the professionals like? We only kind of get a glimpse in this series through Alex and Kagetora when they teach new techniques to the main cast. Not to mention that the Generation of Miracles is hardly the first generation of prodigies to come along. How good are the professional players in this world? Or in Prince of Tennis? Or in Eyeshield 21? Each player in Kuroko no Basket only really has one special move, but Kagetora gave the impression that the Barrier Jumper is just one piece of his old toolbelt. We'll probably never know. Full-grown humans are no where near as interesting as still-developing ones, apparently.

I had to revert my paginator changes. Apparently, Liquid isn't that great for anything more than the simplest of processing. I was wondering why it was taking so much longer to build this website.

Thinking about the site icon set me on another brainstorming session. I've been getting kind of tired of "Little HIVE Studios". I still like it, but it doesn't mean as much to me as it once did. I really liked it because, currently, there's no other company with that name in its entirety. There are a couple companies called "Little Hive", but none of them have the same casing or the "Studios" at the end. My second choice would probably be "Blue Box Studios", but that's taken by many more companies (including one in game development), and in many other combinations. The idea behind this name is that a blue box is my usual go-to programmer art representation of the player character in most games that I build. The Great Inkscape and Glorious Morning started with just a blue box. Crypt Crawler started with a blue circle, but that's my go-to when the game involves 8-directional movement. I'll stick with Little HIVE Studios a big longer.