---
title: Sick
category: general
---
Being sick sucks. It sucks even more when you get to that stage where you're just about functional, so you think "I feel ok. I'll go into work today." Then you're there, and you feel alright for a couple hours. But then you're brought right back down again and you realize you just set back your recovery by another three days. I keep trying to go into work because we keep having meetings that I need to be at. I was up at 5am this morning. I couldn't sleep anyway, but I'm positive that didn't help matters at all. I need a vacation, but we just barely met our milestone, and that was with the team working over the weekend and pulling an all-nighter the day before everything was due. AND...and this time it's going to be even harder because we don't have stuff to work on right away. I'm not even sure if the first stuff we're going to be working on is ready to be worked on.

I only have myself to blame for this. I spent 4 out of 7 days two weeks ago staying up until midnight playing Overwatch. I'm not a young man anymore ;) and that really caught up with me quick. I've been sick ever since. I apparently have a really high resistance to illness and injury, but only if I stick to my routine. In bed by 10 most nights and three square meals a day. If I have that, I can weather just about anything the average joe would have to deal with. But now I'm stuck here sneezing at my desk, torn between going to work so I can get stuff done but spread germs around, working from home and not getting nearly enough done, or just taking the day off and losing all that work completely.