---
title: Dark Souls Round 2
category: gaming
---
I beat Dark Souls 3 over the weekend for the second time. This was my "get everything" run. I spent about an hour farming souls and buying all the pyromancies, miracles, sorceries, and armor sets from the NPCs in Firelink Shrine. I went through the lists on the wiki and I'm pretty sure I got everything that's not a gift from a covenant. I should be well set to start NG+ and transform my build into anything I choose. I'm going to go with a str/fth build this next time around. I'm always seeing people on youtube doing huge amounts of damage in few swings. Layering all these buffs and defeating bosses in 2-3 hits. I want to give that a shot. I got the feeling during my last run that I was getting good enough to start doing stupid things.

I had a hard time on Nameless King until I figured out that my off-weapon was doing more damage than my main weapon, and learned his timing a little better. I actually got frustrated enough to walk away and go beat on something else. So I went through the Grand Archives and beat the Twin Princes on my second attempt. These guys gave me a lot of trouble during my first playthrough and it was almost sad how easily I handled them. I felt really bad wailing on these two cripples who just want to be left alone. The same sort of thing happened against Soul of Cinder. This last, majestic effort is going to waste against a little soldier who turns out to be a fantasy ninja. Soul was a lot easier than I remember, and I have a feeling that all the bosses are going to be like this during NG+. I beat Vordt with almost no trouble and I'm probably going to have the same experience with the Greatwood.

Oh well, the Greatwood is the last boss I'm going to beat with my current build. Then I get to give my last tounge to Rosaria and completely overhaul my character. I'm really happy this is a feature in this game.

The End of Fire ending was, in true form, very anti-climatic. It was kind of funny to have lead the Firekeeper to the first flame, then sit there as she snuffs it out and everything fades to black. These games are never about the endings, because ending just means beginning a new cycle. You link the fire, then start a new cycle in a few hundred years, or you don't and another fire springs up in a few millenia. Or maybe the next fire never comes and From hasn't made a game about the dark world yet (Bloodborne?). I am curious about this "Age of the Deep Sea" that I've heard so little about. There isn't much on it other than Aldritch had a vision about it and it inspired him to start eating gods. Maybe a great flood is set to arrive. Ash Lake could overflow and cover the world. I'm not sure what could survive there, but I'm not sure what nice things could survive an Age of Dark either. It does seem pretty cool to think that Bloodborne is what happens to the world with it's in an Age of Dark, but that's really only going off of the fact that all the footage I've seen of Bloodborne takes place at night. It's also kind of suspicious that after all this time, the player in DS3 is still using medieval weapondry. I might be able to buy the cycle thing saying that technology ebbs and flows over time. It's possible that technology progressed to the point we have in our modern world, then a great war sent us back to the stone age and we had to rebuild from there. That could have happened multiple times and just happens to line up perfectly with the time when the games happen. Either that, or medieval combat is just what the From devs know and love.

Just checked the Bloodborne wiki. There is a "daytime" sort of thing, but I can't tell from the picture if it's lit by a sun or a bright moon. That's cool to think about though.

I'm really looking forward to the Ursurpation of the Flame ending. I've seen a clip that might have spoiled it for me. I assumed it was from the End of Fire ending. It shows the Ashen One attempting to link the fire, but there not being enough power left in the flame to burn the player, so it goes out anyway. But the questline to get that ending is much more involved and convoluted than the others. I've already taken the first step in rescuing Yoel and having him unlock my power. Now I basically have to die a bunch of times to have him unlock my power more, then continue on as I did last playthrough until I get to the church and kill Pontiff Sulyvahn. Then I get MARRIED!! I'm not sure how many of the optional bosses I'm going to bother with this time around. I'll have to go down through Smoldering Lake to kill Horace, but I don't have to fight anything else down there. I'm most likely going to skip the Nameless King and not skip the Greatwood. All I'm really interested in getting this time is enough upgrade material to have a decent build. The Blood and Fire build was fun, but I feel like the points in Luck were wasted after I started putting everything into Dex. I noticed that nothing bled much anymore. It definitely made the early game really easy.