---
title: Dark Souls Finished
category: gaming
---
I finally did it over the weekend. I got the third and final ending of Dark Souls 3. It was far more badass than any of the other endings.

Becoming the new Dark Lord is far cooler than it was in Dark Souls 1. My character walking out of the Kiln with all the undead bowing was really cool. Far better than having the primordial serpants bowing at the end of DS1. I definitely sped through the game a lot faster this time than I did with my last playthrough. I skipped a ton of stuff and spent far less time exploring or banging my head against bosses. I beat most of the bosses that gave me a ton of trouble in 2-3 tries.

I was also a lot more comfortable running around Embered this time. I had 70+ Embers in my inventory when I started and died a lot less. Not to mention I reached that SL 120 sweet spot around Irithyll. I was only invaded a couple times, and once was by a dude who just happily bowed to me the entire time, at least until a Darkmoon was accidentially summoned to my side and went after him right away. If I do anything else before the DLC comes out, it'll be going through with a new character and spending a lot of time with my summon sign placed around.

I attempted to switch to a str/faith build early on and found that the Dragonslayer Greatsword did far less DPS than my Uchikatana. But I liked having Deep Protection so I respec'd one last time back into a dex/faith build so I could keep both. I had some fun being able to imbue my weapon with stuff, but it didn't seem to do very much during fights. I tried to keep it up during boss fights, but there's hardly any breathing room in most boss fights, so I ended up just letting the buffs fall off and then going after the boss like normal. Maybe in my multiplayer build I'll keep the dex/faith split and use more of the AOE healing spells. Be a real sunlight warrior.

I went to see if GheyForGames had done anything with DS3. These guys uploaded the Ultimate Guide to Dark Souls that I used pretty extensively during my first playthrough. Turns out they just started a guide for DS3, but they have a full series of Let's Plays uploaded. I think one of them has played through it a couple times and the other one hasn't played it at all, which I think is a good format. We see one get excited and have fresh perspectives on everything, and the other to get them through the trouble spots. They're both really good veteran DS players, and they edit their stuff down so we don't have to watch them run back to the boss for the 14th time. I skipped around to watch their reactions to the bosses. The newer guy was really excited by the Yhorm fight and how long it was going to be until the veteran told him to use the Storm Ruler. At that point, the newer guy couldn't believe that From had phoned it in so much with this fight. They immediately put it as one of their least favorite fights in all 5 From games. Until they fought the Wyvern, that is.

However, their reactions when fighting the Soul of Cinder was amazing. All the hype came out when they exclaimed "This is the Gwyn we wanted. You can't parry him, he throws lightning, and the entire arena is destructible." It was a real treat seeing someone else experience the game for the first time and it made me wish I was still in the situation where I could go play games at a friends house. I would LOVE to go to a friend's house and watch them experience Dark Souls for the first time. Explain hard-to-understand lore tidbits (or don't) to them, laugh at their frustration at this area or that, and just generally get to experience the masochism from the outside.

Maybe I'll be able to do this with my kid. I dug up that article about the father who rose his kid through the history of gaming. If my kid likes gaming, maybe I'll try this.