---
title: Finished Building
category: general
---
I recently completed a major construction project on my house. I don't do construction. I used to play with all the construction toys and erector sets when I was a kid, so I have an idea how to build some things. But this was a piece of my house. Granted, I didn't do very much work, but I understood well enough to follow along, and even built some small things out of the scrap wood left over when it was done. Now I've been bitten by the construction bug and I want to build more things.

What's holding me back is the huge difference between actual construction and virtual construction (programming). One is free most of the time and the other is definitely NOT free. There are a plethora of free tools and hosting options out there. Far and enough to let me build practically whatever I want. Even basic construction requires a ton of materials and tools. If we didn't already have a stock of power tools, I might have been able to get away with nothing but a hand saw, a hammer, and a screwdriver. But I'd still have to purchase the raw materials. I had no idea wood was so expensive, not to mention the power tools you get to make your job easier.

I paid close to nothing for all the development tools I have. I could spend the time and build the next-gen horror game if I wanted to spend that much time, but the key is that I wouldn't have to spend any money actually making the game. I suppose you could argue that, as long as you lived in a wooded area, you could just add an axe to the list of tools I listed and have all that you need. That would probably be akin to wanting to start development on a game, and having to assemble your computer and program your OS first. There just isn't a very good comparison. All other hobbies I've looked in to have such a steep financial barrier of entry. At least you can learn all you want about programming for free or close to it.

I don't know. I guess I'm trying to talk myself out of picking up another hobby. I think I could be good at woodworking. I always wanted to try finished carpentry (which I learned is different from construction carpentry, which is what my wife specializes in). I'd want to build tables and chairs and stuff, not houses and decks. Maybe I'll try to convince my wife to let me be the one to finish that picnic table we're thinking about adding to our new deck.