---
title: Dark Souls III SL1
category: gaming
---
I thought it was time. I had beaten Dark Souls several times, although there are a couple of bosses that I haven't beaten without assistance or a bit of cheese, and I had beaten Dark Souls III at least 5 times. I don't believe I'm going to have a lot of time to game in the near future, so I decided to take the plunge and do an SL1 run. I didn't both attempting some of the optional bosses, but the rest were far easier than I thought they would be.

I read up on a quick equipment guide that I used to decide which weapons I was going to use throughout the game, but that was about it. I didn't bother going for this particular Titanite Chunk or that particular Large Titanite Shard. I just went through the game, looking for the equipment I would eventually use.

I took the Fire Gem as my burial gift and used it early on to get a Fire Broadsword. I also grabbed a Deep Long Sword, but didn't end up using it all that much. The Chloranthy Ring was a huge help as usual. I don't actually think I can go through the game at all without it. So was the Grass Crest Shield. I only switched to a smaller shield for the Pontiff and Champion Gundyr fights when I needed something that would parry better. I broke sequence to try and fight the Dancer pretty early, but didn't end up actually beating her until I had defeated Abyss Watchers and Yhorm, but before I took on Aldrich. By then, I was pretty settled into the Herald set, the Chloranthy Ring, and Lloyd's Sword Ring. I alternated the last slots between a ring that enhanced Pyromancy, Flynn's Ring, Ring of the Evil Eye, Lloyd's Shield Ring, and the Fire Clutch Ring. I learned that rings that enhance Pyromancy don't actually enhance damage done by a weapon infused with Carthus Flame Arc. The Fire Clutch Ring gave an extremely negligible benefit. Since I didn't have the stats for a 100% block shield, the Ring of the Evil Eye was great for long stretches of normal enemies. Lloyd's Shield Ring saved me a couple times, but I didn't stay at full health enough of the time to make it all that useful. I didn't bother using the Red Tearstone Ring because it had been nerfed so much since previous games.

I tried using the Ring of Favor, but the added health didn't really amount to much. I swapped in the Prisoner's Chain, which was better, but I still didn't really notice the difference. The biggest jump came when I beat Champion Gundyr and finally got the Priestess Ring, which bumped me up enough to use Blessed Weapon and the Astora Straight Sword. Between that bumping the sword to +10 and Raw infusing it and all the practice I had gotten, I was pretty much unstoppable.

I had to summon NPC help for Oceiros. I didn't bother taking on any of the DLC bosses or Nameless King. My patience had run out learning to parry Pontiff and Champion Gundyr. I still don't fully understand the parry timing in DS3. There are plenty of times when the animation will make it look like I successfully hit their weapon with my shield, but the weapon will pass through me and do damage and all my stamina will disappear. Parrying with the smaller shields was much easier to get the timing for. Another unexpectedly hard boss was the Twin Princes. Normally, I'm all over Lorian in phase 1, and phase 2 isn't that different. But that transition magic shot kept killing me.

Conversely, I had an unexpectedly easy time with Aldrich. Likely because I had just jumped up in power before taking him on and got in some practice helping Anri take him down. I even figured out how to avoid the arrow rain if I failed to get close enough to prevent him from using it. The biggest problem I had was when he would twist off-camera and then swipe in with his sword-wand-thing and one-shot me. Other than that, it was a pretty easy fight.

All in all, it was a good experience and a fitting trophy to put on my Dark Souls III wall. I could probably quit now and be satisfied. Although I've already started another run as a Strength character.