---
title: Back in Swing
category: general
---
Nothing like the start of a new project to remind you how much free time you've been spending doing nothing. We just started a new series of projects at work, and I'm at the helm of two separate teams. It was a lot to take in and I spent a couple nights wondering how I would deal with it all. But it seems to have turned out ok. I think we're close to hitting our groove and making major progress on the project.

But man, I miss having free time at work. I didn't really notice how much time I spent doing nothing until I stopped doing it. This entire week, my brain has been driving in 5th gear. It got to the point where I could actually feel my brain slowing down as I drove home at the end of the day. By the time I actually got home, I was measureably slower in my thinking and just wanted to zone out at something.

Today, I'm taking a bit of a break (hence why I'm posting here). It's Friday, and I don't have any plans to run my brain past 3rd gear or so. I don't have any plans this weekend. I'm just going to relax, work on my side-project a little bit, and play a ton of video games.

Dark Souls III came out this week. I decided to wait, since From Software's track record for PC ports is not stellar, and I don't have a PS4. The reviews I've been reading that are related to the game content are mostly complaining about things that were changed from Dark Souls I. The reviews I've been paying attention to are the ones complaining about framerate drops and crashes in the PC port. They're up to patch 1.03, from what I can tell, and the internet seems to think that the game has stabilized a little bit. My computer is probably a little on the old side to be playing a game like this, but I'll be damned if I'm going to let that stop me. I didn't let having to turn down the graphics in FFXIV stop me from enjoying the crap out of it, and I'm not going to let that stop me here either. I skipped Dark Souls II because I wasn't into the series then. I regret missing Bloodbourne. I'm not going to miss the start of the Dark Souls III community lore.

I've been replaying XCOM: Enemy Unknown lately. It's a really good game for the status of my time while I'm playing it. I usually play it when it's my turn to watch the dogs for the evening. A turn-based strategy game is just the thing when you have to get up eveyr 20 minutes to put the dogs outside to do their business. It also works really well with the Steam Controller. I think that's become the issue with my setup. The Steam Controller is great, when you don't have to use the right side trackpad. It just doesn't work with games that are meant to use a controller. It's a decent compromise between a joystick and a mouse, but the trackpad was never meant to play games seriously. I tried playing Half-Life 2 with it, and it was really awkward and clunky. I tried playing Dark Souls with it, and I almost got used to it, but it might have made me lose interest in my 3rd playthrough much faster.