---
title: The Witcher 3
category: gaming
---
I picked out the next game I'm going to play: The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt. It came heavily recommended by friends, although like I said in the previous post, most of them had never played Dark Souls. So I respect their opinion, but I'm keeping in mind that they have no idea what kind of a mindset I'm coming into this game with. I'm going to try really hard not to let Dark Souls ruin this game for me, even through I've seen that it's a fairly common occurrance on Reddit and in the Steam reviews. I already caught myself trying to use rolling as if it has invincibility frames during the tutorial. I'm going to have to get back to my DMC roots I think. Actually rolling out of attacks in order to avoid them rather than through them. It's not something that other games do.

First impressions were ok. I'm not sure I like the art style just yet. All the trailers and footage of the previous games paint this as a dark and gritty fantasy about a monster-slaying mercenary whose personality is mostly in the hands of the player but who could easily swing between the hard-boiled mercenary with charitable and friendly inclinations, or the hard-boiled mercenary who hates the entire world because most of it has tried to kill him. Either way, the whole into is just so damned bright and colorful. The ground and trees are a very pastel color of brown. It almost makes the world look cartoonish, but the characters look like they were going for realism and just didn't have the budget for it. They're all very expressive and have smooth facial animations. It just contrasts a lot with the environment.

I also had my first instance of combat. It was just a couple ghouls or something, but it didn't even really feel like a fight. This is definitely a game that's focused on telling the story and channeling Dragon Age or Mass Effect. I'm going to try going through this without a guide. I'll probably spend my bored time reading up on Witcher 1 and 2 instead.