---
title: Productivity Week
category: gaming
---
So begins the most unproductive week of the year. My entire management staff, the source of just about all my work, is out at a conference for the whole week. They didn't even leave their backups to help move things along. We're going to have a load of work sitting there, waiting for their approval stamp, for the entire week. It's going to get very depressing, and it's only Monday.

I, like the rest of the world's 25-35 year olds, picked up Pokemon GO last week. I was a relatively avid player of Ingress, Niantic's previous GPS based game. So I've come in armed with a good amount of experience and know-how before Pokemon even started up. Having prior knowledge of where the gyms and pokestops are seems to be giving me a rather large advantage. If only I had the free time to take advantage of it. This is definitely still a game for people living in a city. Another fun advantage is that I already know a lot about Niantic's design, so I expected a lot of the things about Pokemon GO that newer players are complaining about. The big one is not being able to do very much in rural areas. Another one is all those saps who are picking the team color that already dominates their area. I already know from experience that no one has fun if there's no one on the opposing side in an area. Although having three teams instead of two makes situations like that a little harder to come by. Everyone has their own opinion about which team is best, and I'm just sitting here on the same team my wife picked.

I'm only level 6, but this game has far more indicators of advancement than Ingress ever did. In Ingress, your weapons just got more powerful as you levelled up. The only other benefit to levelling up was that the higher level resonators you could attach to portals meant you could connect them over longer distances. As a higher level pokemon trainer, new items appear AND rarer pokemon. Just having that extra dimension is a huge advantage over Ingress. One thing I hope got carried over from Ingress was a power cap. You could level up past level 8, but your weapons wouldn't get any more powerful after that. That meant that all players who reached level 8 had a fighting chance against all other players in the game. Pokemon doesn't appear to have a level cap for the power of your pokemon yet. At least, not that anyone has reached. If this continues, then the barrier of entry is just going to go up and up and up until no new players want to pick the game up anymore. I'd probably go back to Ingress if that happened, laugh at the poor sobs who jumped on the Pokemon GO bandwagon with the rest of the master race.