---
title: Sleepless Nights
category: rant
---
I wonder if the big thing happening in January is finally really starting to get to me. I've just had my second sleepless night in a row and I feel absolutely terrible. Last night was probably brought on by discovering that we may have a cockroach infestation in our couch. I've discovered two of the little buggers in the past month, but I don't know enough about them to identify them. Roaches have so many different looks they might as well just be different bugs. All the ones I've seen in movies and on TV are supposedly huge, like 3" long or something. This one was barely half and inch. I told my wife, and she said I just about brought on a panic attack. The combination of those two happenings kept me awake all night.

Then when I finally do fall asleep, my brain treats me to this visceral dream about a world where the roads between cities are full of dangerous monsters who like to eat humans. People ride on these industrial wasteland-style hovercars and people die on the road every day. My wife and my entire family are riding a car through this. I just barely save my wife and mother from drowning when a giant jellyfish snares them. We reach a relative checkpoint where we find a mother and son crying over the loss of their father. We offer one seat to them, but neither takes it. So my father offered his seat as well. I was 12 in the dream, so I had an incredibly emotional reaction right before I woke up.

The night before, I dreamt that we were dealing with a little insect that looked like a stick-bug, only it was very clearly metal. It proved to be impossible to kill, and if you let it go, it would try to burrow into the nearest person. It became a battle of trying to stay away, and I was just falling asleep in the dream, my last thoughts being of the sensation of something poking at my stomach, before I woke up for real. It was terrible.

So, thanks a lot, brain.

In other news, we might actually reach our deadline this week. Although we're already talking about redesigning things we worked on this week. I just hope that the rest of the team realizes that we won't be considering these things after our feature freeze deadline. In the meantime, I'm back where I was working at my previous job, at least mentally. I'm bored silly but feel like I should be doing something to help the project, writing code to make things easier in the future, SOMETHING. But I have zero ideas for how to make things better here. I don't feel right going in and refactoring code someone else is still working on. All I can really do is write unit tests, which I'm starting to think is a waste of time anyway since the code I'm writing the unit tests against are going to be heavily refactored before the project deadline. In short, I really feel like I should be doing something, but I have no idea what I should be doing.

That said, I did just have a quick meeting with the other tech lead about how to tackle a pretty bad performance issue. So I guess I'm kind of doing things. I wonder what the other tech lead is doing in the other half of this project. I hate this. I don't want to be on this project anymore. I don't understand how anything in the world works, and I can't try to understand it until I have something meaningful to contribute. That's just how I am.

I did do something productive on a personal matter the other day. I had already turned my Raspberry Pi into a miniture old-school arcade machine, but I had a spare SD card left over. So I installed RasPlex and turned it into a little media client for our Plex media server. Now I can watch our library on my office TV instead of just on my computer. We are slowly turning our house into an internet of things.