---
title: General Stuff
category: general
---
That's a lot of generals up there...heh

I really hate that my time-tracker at work asks me twice whether I'm back when I've been idle for a while. I'm not running the thing twice, it's just asking to be a nuisance.

I'm 2 months into my keto diet and I've lost 18 pounds. My goal was 30lb and 6 months, whichever came later. I figured I'd hit the 30lb mark way before the 6 month mark and then keep going from there. I'm really on track for that. It's been getting really hard not to cheat in little ways, mostly because the diet allows for little cheats. A few grams of yogurt here, one or two M&Ms there, a few glasses of diet soda, etc. But all-in-all, it hasn't been that bad. I'm able to eat the vast majority of the foods I liked before, but I've had to give up a few that I loved, like cereal, stuffing, and most fruits. But I've found some decent substitutes. Work has been an absolute blessing in this. I'm able to find keto-friendly stuff almost every day, although I do eat a lot of cheeseburger steak for snacks and if I miss eggs and sausage for breakfast, I'm basically screwed out of breakfast, but that hasn't happened yet. The only difference I've noticed in myself is a general drop in energy. I don't feel or look any different, which is kind of disappointing. I think I looked pretty good before, but I've never had the most accurate picture of my own body. I know it really well. I'm more coordinated than most. But I never really think about what it feels like to be in my own body. How tall I am. How much effort I have to put into moving. What my stomach looks like. That last one is a biggie. My personal biggest reason for this diet is to see if I can finally lose my dad-bod belly fat. I've had a pudge since I was a kid and it always drove me nuts. And even after almost 20lb, it's still there. Whatever, if I never lose it, it won't be the end of the world. I'll just drop the weight for the hell of it.

I've decided against trying to get my Weave playset in before Gencon. I had a fairly nice interaction with the social media manager that placated my frustrations from last post. She told me that if I rewrite my playset for advanced, she could make sure they got it into the app before the con. I already don't trust the documentation in the GitHub repo, so I'm having a hard time determining exactly what makes a playset ready for advanced. There are Tags and extra text blurbs that can be linked to various entities, but no rhyme or reason on what can be attached to what. Besides, I'm regretting not saving the project I built while going through the Ruby on Rails tutorial, so I'm redoing that first. I'll wrestle with the playset creator once that goes live and join the ranks of all the other storytelling hopefuls.

Speaking of Rails, I've settled on recreating my old Convention Planning website. That was a pretty decent idea specifically tailored to me and my friends. I'm actually going to wind up going to 4 conventions this year. I've also gotten **much** better at webdev since my early attempt at this site, and the surrounding tech has gotten much better. I expect to be able to hook in to Venmo for sending hotel/parking payments around and Spotify for travel music. There might even be a convention listing API out there somewhere, not to mention weather. I'm actually kind of excited. Rails is actually pretty decent so long as almost nothing is generalized. Looking through the tutorial I'm using, everything is tightly coupled together. I'd find it hard to write a Rails app over an existing database since a lot of this tutorial has you building the database along with the app and utilizing model bindings instead of actually writing SQL. But it's a cute language that will be pretty cool writing an app in. Plus, it appears to work nicely with Heroku, which I'm going to try using as a hosting platform.

I got a CPAP machine yesterday and tried it out last night. The skin around my nose is sore and the only difference I noticed today was a mild headache for the entire day. So I'm not sure. I've done a lot of thinking about my sleep apnea and whether everyone is right when no one has actually done a real medical exam of me. All the reading I've done indicates that sleep apnea is caused by the throat muscles relaxing and closing the airway, forcing the person to wake up slightly, tense those muscles, and open the airway again. It's very likely that this is happening to me, but I try to do some self-examination as I'm falling asleep too, see if I can recreate the feeling. My findings are that I just stop breathing entirely. My airway is open. It's just that I exhale and sit there without breathing in again. A long time ago, I was having trouble sleeping one night. My heart was pounding from whatever I was thinking about. I thought that I could slow it down with willpower. So I purposely started breathing slower. So much slower that it hurt a little, until my heart slowed down too and my body started relaxing. I also delved into meditation and slowing your breath that way. I've been wondering if I tricked my subconscious into thinking that the slower you breath, the better you sleep. So the only logical thing to do when you want the best sleep possible is to stop breathing entirely. I don't know. I'm sure no one will believe me on this. I'm asleep when this happens, after all. How could I possibly know what's going on with my breathing. Either way, I'm effectively stuck with this machine forever now. Everyone is telling me that once I get used to sleeping with it on, I'll feel so good during the day that I'll never want to go back. It's only day one and I feel pretty miserable about the whole thing, but I understand where they're coming from, so I'll keep going with it. I do like all the analytics that it pumps out.

I started playing Stardew Valley on my phone and Yakuza 0 on my computer. They're both growing on me. Yakuza 0 is open-world but very restrictive. There isn't very much to do outside other than get into fights and interact with the odd NPC. But there are a ton of minigames inside places. When I finally got the chance to free-roam, I discovered shogi, darts, pool, batting cages, crane games, and karaoke, and I'm sure there's loads more. The central gameplay is pretty entertaining as well, but it runs like a visual novel. Not that I mind. Means the story is more relaxing. Stardew Valley is similar. I've been playing idle games for a while now, and am starting to find them really boring. SV is scratching that itch of a game I don't fee obligated to keep playing. I'm just growing things on my farm. It spells out what kind of game it's trying to be with the intro where it says, "When you tire of city life, come here to find purpose and quiet satisfaction." It's really nice. Plus, I have a couple people at work I can talk to about it.
