---
title: Started a Diet
category: general
---
I'm bored at work again, so I've come here to write.

Someone in my family made a comment about my weight over the weekend, about how I should be 30lb lighter than I am. I always knew it and did little things to try and help it. I unpacked the BowFlex and started using it 3 times a week for 30 minutes. I also tried to control my portions. I was pretty convinced that I was already eating pretty healthily, keeping sugary snacks to a minimum. But I was still gaining weight at about a rate of a pound per 2-3 months. That's not terrible, but I recently broke 260lb. Again, it's not a super unhealthy weight for someone my height, but I saw a bunch of really in-shape dudes at the convention the other week and I saw how my wife looked at them.

So, I started on keto. My wife is in full support of this idea, since she's had good luck with the diet before. I'm going to see how things go. My goal is to keep on the diet for 6 months and/or to get my weight down to 230lb. I'm predicting that 6 months on the diet will actually bring my weight quite a bit lower than that, assuming I don't bottom out like my wife did. But if I can lose more weight than that, all the better. Maybe by the end of this, I'll have shed my dad-pudge and I'll actually be able to see what my abs look like...

I did what I usually do when learning a new programming language today, looked around to see what sorts of game development packages exist for it. Ruby was no exception, of course. As I'm discovering is typical of Ruby, there seems to be only one de facto package to do this: [Gosu](https://www.libgosu.org/). What's funny is that it says right there on the website that it "should work for indie game development, though nobody has really tried that." From what I'm reading elsewhere, Ruby has very bad garbage collecting, which makes it unsuited for making commercial games. That never bothered me, I use Lua for game development primarily, another language not entirely suited for commercial game development. Being a solo hobbiest, it's actually perfect for my purposes, just like how GitHub Pages has been perfect for my personal web development purposes. Although if I really do come up with some dynamite website idea that needs a back-end, Ruby and Heroku will probably be my first stop.

I went back and made an update to my Weave playset. I had a few questions from previous players about whether they have "basic" hunting equipment. So I added a Basic Hunting Kit to one of the cards and added notes in a few places for players not to pick the item when they select it and for the storyteller to give each player that item when the game starts. I put feelers out to see if anyone would be interested in a game this weekend. No replies yet. I'm worried the community is dying somewhat. It's far less active than it was before. There were only ever about a dozen active people, but even most of them seem to have dropped off. It doesn't help that the creator essentially refused to import my playset because he's working on too much stuff. He's a really difficult person to talk to, prone to leaping several lines ahead in the conversation and saying things without context that he expects you to just understand, and sometimes changing the subject entirely. Very difficult to follow and I'm not sure we'd get along that much. Oh well, I suppose I'll just wait for the playset creator to come out.

Another hour and a half before I get to go home...
