---
title: Pencil Lead
category: art
---
I made a discovery yesterday. Not all mechanical pencil lead is created equal. I was getting really frustrated with my new sketchpad and how it wasn't holding lead like my old one did. How it was so much harder to shade things and make final lines darker than the sketch lines. You might notice that my Creepy Tunnel, Huey Dewey Louie, and Fallen London drawings aren't nearly as dark as the other drawings, especially in the outlines. Apparently, that's because that's around the time the lead piece I was using ran out and I got the next one in the cannister. That lead was apparently of a harder grade than what I had been using, so it didn't shade as well or go as dark as the other lead. I took that one out and put it back in my supply case, and the next one felt sooooooo much better that I went back and re-outlined the Fallen London hat.

I was *almost* a lot more adventurous yesterday too. I was going through the internet, looking for some inspiration, and almost decided to try drawing Superman as he looked in the animated series. I took a long look at him and couldn't see the shapes for the figure. I managed to pick out individual shapes and lines when I drew the Ducktales brothers, but I still have a block when it comes to the human subjects. I'll tackle them eventually, of course.

My wife has also been getting really into trying to get me to use better equipment. She criticized my older sketchpad for being "just plain paper" and tried to encourage me to use an actual pencil instead of a mechanical one. The big problem is that I really like the minimalism. I like just using an unending pencil that never needs sharpening and a sketchpad. I'm worried that I might stop liking this hobby if I wind up with too much equipment to choose from. I really don't want to discourage her though. I have the faint hope that I'm wrong....

But what if it does work out? What if I accept all her help, start trying to use whatever new equipment she gives me, and continue to really enjoy this. The worst that could happen is that I go down a rabbit hole and wind up spending too much money on this. So far, I've only used a really old sketchpad that I've had since I was in middle school, a mechanical pencil that has **TONS** of leftover lead that I've bought over the years, and I've spent around $20 on a new sketchpad that will probably last me 6 months. I guess my biggest hang-up is that I've only really seen two types of hobbies: my gamedev which has a high startup cost but is completely free after that, and my wife's cosplay projects which have high running costs. She routinely spends $100-$120 a month on patterns and fabric, while I spend nothing to support my gamedev or webdev hobbies. I don't have any exposure to anything in between. Maybe this will be it. A hobby that only costs a little bit of affordable money. Something that I don't mind dropping $20 every couple months on it.

So if this does work out and I become a real artist, I'll lost... nothing really. There will never be anything stopping me from going back to just a mechanical pencil and a sketchpad. I'll just have a bunch of things I don't use as often at home. And if I myself don't actually spend money on any of it, then I won't run into my big hangup. I'll just be able to keep drawing as much as I like.

Really, I should just stop thinking so hard about this. It's just a hobby. I enjoy doing it alongside my other pursuits. I can do it when I don't have a computer handy. The people I've shown it to seem to like it. And it's a good conversation starter... supposedly. The new friends I've shown my stuff to just seem to nod and go "that's nice" rather than encourage any further conversation about it.

I've also gotten used to using Imgur for my art hosting, as surprising as that sounds. All I have to do is not think about all the other stuff the app is trying to throw at me. I just calmly upload my private images and update the art data for this site and I'm done. I've also switched to taking square pictures of my art. I don't like how I was forced to take some pics in portrait and some in landscape. It messes with the layout of my art page. So it's all squares from now on!
