---
title: Published!!!
category: tabletop
---
I had an interview with the former social media and marketing manager at Monocle Society (the Weave company). She's now their lead writer. She's reaching out to all the community playset writers (like myself) to take stock of their progress, see what's out there in terms of content, and to discuss PUBLICATION AND SALE OPTIONS!!!

AAAAAAAAAA!!!!

She all but asked me to enter a contract where I'd get paid commission and they'd publish my playset to the store...

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!

I mean, I love my playset. But I still think it's just my own stupid personal side project and not worth very much. It's horribly derivative. It's almost exactly like playing through the Supernatural TV show. And yet people love it. The manager even told me that, because this was the first non-core playset she was exposed to, she's personally invested in seeing it succeed.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!

Alright, I think I'm done screaming for now. So they're still working out the details of a contract to offer the writers. They think they'll have three models for community written playsets: private, community, and sponsored. Private playsets are added through the playset creator and are only available to the creator and those they choose to share their sets with. I thought I would fall into this category for sure. Community are added to the public store after being reviewed, are reviewed, are probably going to be available for free, and are not marketed by the Monocle Society team. Sponsored are sort of like premium sets. They are still added to the public store after being reviewed, but are paid and are more heavily marketed by the Monocle Society team. I'm a little concerned about surrendering creative control in order to make my set sponsored, but I would love to make some money off of this set. The manager who interviewed me said they are looking to publish four sponsored sets every year. That is a **really** tall order. They might be able to sustain it for 2-3 years before they run out of community material. There are only 6-8 community playsets waiting right now, and writing them is hard work, even for derivative sets like mine. I can't imagine how hard it would be to write completely original sets like the Garden or Prospect City. But then, the manager herself (now lead writer) did mention that she has 4 sets she's working on herself. So maybe it isn't that hard if it's your job. This is my hobby, and not even my favorite hobby at that. I like playing far more than I like writing. Then again, I like playing what I wrote far more than both of those...

Anyway, that interview had me internally screaming with delight for the rest of the night. It was the perfect way to wrap up the Weave adventures I got into over the weekend. I can't wait to see where this goes and I really want to keep working on my playset right now. The manager was rather impressed when I told her how much progress I had made. I only recently sat down and figured out how Triggers are supposed to work, then I went through and made a ton of edits to the player-facing aspects of the cards, editing duplicate abilities and adding mechanics and triggers to things. Next, I'm going to go through and add backstories, talents, and flaws to the enemies and bosses. Then I'm...basically done. I'd still like to go through and edit more of the Talents to remove more of the Passive abilities. Getting things like "Add one die to challenges made to be sneaky" don't seem nearly as interesting as "make a challenge to breathe fire on someone." I'm also finding that I have a handful of OP talents that function more like signature moves than talents. In an ideal world, every talent would be useful, but that's a lot of disparate things to unify under this world. I really want to get rid of all the talents like "good at knife fighting" or "good with a scythe." All the hunters are good at fighting with things. These shouldn't be specific talents unless they're specialized enough that the other players wouldn't reasonably know how to do them. Like, it takes specialized training to operate heavy weaponry, but not a knife or a pistol. Almost anyone can do that.

I'm also ditching the "roll one die" challenges in favor of core challenges. They're more in line with how I feel the game is supposed to work, and can give the players some more agency when picking their skills. The "Depression" flaw requiring a Brooks core challenge can be combatted by choosing Brooks as your character's core suit. There's a little more player control there.

Until the playset creator comes out (which it hopefully will soon), I'm going to keep making updates and playing the set. I'm getting close to a really good balance of things here, even though in my previous session, none of the players really took damage (I'm still working out how combat is supposed to work from the enemies' perspective).
