---
title: They Really Like It
category: tabletop
---
I played in two Weave sessions this past weekend. Both were pretty enjoyable, but one much more so than the other.

The first was run by Fen. It was my first time playing in the playset Clique, which is supposedly a mundane high school drama set. It's rather boring compared to the other sets. It doesn't have any supernatural, sci-fi, or fantasy elements to speak of. But then Fen put this really fun spin on it and turned us into the cast from a teen horror movie. It fits, at least with the characters the set is capable of creating. I'm not sure how well it worked with what the storyteller could draw though. Most of the stuff in there is normal high school stuff.

But then, **BUT THEN**!! The next day I went looking for people who wanted to play my Hunters playset. I got up to 8 people, including something like 5 returning players who all but pounced on the chance to play my playset again. I was a little nervous about managing 8 players, but then two of them dropped out and the session seemed more manageable. I finally drew a non-human boss and away we went.

The theme was "Apprentice Hunter" where the players have to manage an overeager and naive newbie hunter who wants to prove themselves. The location was a Bar. The boss was the Lost Oracle, the ghost of a powerful psychic/witch. I decided to set the story after the newbie hunter had already proven herself, but I planned on making her the main victim of the plot. So half the party started off at the bar celebrating a successful vampire nest eradication where the newbie hunter did an amazing job. The other half came to the bar to drown their sorrows after one of their number was killed while they were hunting a banshee. The different moods played wonderfully off of each other and everyone had something to do. The newbie went to the bathroom to puke, and there she was possessed by the Lost Oracle. The team dealt with her for a bit, including one of them using her special move to force the Oracle to stay divulge more information, before she teleported away. Then they all went through their own channels to gather information. One called his hunters safehouse and got someone staying there to do some research for them. Another brought a box of pizza out to a lake (narrowly avoiding an encounter with a spriggan) and got more information out of a community of fairies. Through both of these, the party learns where the Lost Oracle's bones are interred and that they have to steal her mystical fortune-telling orb from a museum and use it to unlock the mausoleum.

Now here's where things get more epic. One of the players leaves and uses his special move, "Lucifer Owes you a Favor." He calls upon the devil to go retrieve the orb for the party. Everyone else is in awe that this is a thing in the playset and listen in rapt attention as I describe what it's like to summon the devil and talk with him. So now they have the orb, two characters have used their special moves and a whole lot of magic and talents have been flying around. They drive to the graveyard and find the Oracle already at the mausoleum, frustrated and hurling magical bolts at the door that refuses to open. A couple of the party use their talents to scout ahead and then they come up with a plan that uses another of the party's special moves to create a duplicate of herself and distract the Oracle long enough for the rest of the party to go inside. One of the players uses their Improvised Weapons talent to make a bunch of iron clubs out of the fence surrounding the graveyard and the battle was on.

The ploy mostly works. The Oracle was distracted by the duplicate, but not for very long. She whirled on the party and charged, but two party members decide to stay behind to fight her, while the other four go inside to burn her bones. It's turning out just like a Supernatural episode at this point and I couldn't have been happier. One of the four that goes downstairs uses a True Sight Pill to look for any traps in the crypt. I drew "Portal" as a plot twist and decide to place an invisible portal into hell right at the entrance to the main section of the crypt, where the Oracle's bones are. Looking directly into Hell with the True Sight Pill is a really bad idea. The player fails her roll and is driven insane by the sight. Another player uses her Telepathy talent to go inside her mind and try to cure her sudden insanity. I just gave her a roll rather than spend time sending her through a complex mindscape. The party outside mostly succeeds in their rolls to freeze the Oracle's feet to the ground long enough to put another salt circle around her. She attacks them mentally, but they mostly avoid that. Back in the crypt, one of the players takes off running for the main coffin... and manages to succeed in her reflex save to avoid falling through the portal into Hell. Then she uses her Telekinesis talent to lift the lid off of the coffin and her Pyrokinesis talent to burn the bones inside. Outside, the ghost of the Oracle is expelled from the newbie hunter and burns up in the sky.

I was insanely proud of my storytelling that night. I thought this really showed what the playset could do. The story was coherent, had a beginning, middle, and end instead of just a beginning and end, and everyone was useful. When it was over, everyone exclaimed how much they loved this playset, and my ego kept getting bigger and bigger. I can't wait to actually get this set into the app and play it for real.

I just have to get my cover artist to deliver and think up an actual name for the playset. My possibilities are:
* Hunters
* Bump in the Night
* Monster Hunters
* Into the Darkness
* Mystery Files
* Mystic Files
* Hunting Files
* Monster Files

You know, I think I might just keep it as Hunters. People seem to like that and it's generic enough that it won't be knocked our for copyright infringement. I kind of wanted to include "Files" in the name, but I can't figure out a good prefix without it sounding weird. So Hunters it is!!
