---
title: PAX Unplugged - Retrospective
category: tabletop
---
Wow... It's been a really long time since I had this much fun at a convention. Other high rankers are probably the year we did our Street Fighter group cosplay, our Lupin III group cosplay, and maybe my first or second Otakon. This weekend definitely ranked up there in the top 5 convention experiences I've had.

We landed on Thursday after an uneventful car ride. We listened to the Adventure Zone podcast on the way down, which was very entertaining. We got ourselves situated, grabbed dinner, and settled in for the night.

Friday morning, we got up early so we could grab slots in RPG HQ for some games that afternoon. I was sort of interested in trying out Vampire the Masquerade, but those were all full. We signed up for a game of Call of Cthulhu instead. Then I headed to the expo hall. I showed my face and introduced myself to the guys at the Weave booth, got some free stuff, and a few industrial secrets. Long story short, they asked me to do a whole bunch of stuff and invest a whole lot more money into my set than I was ready to say yes to. So we settled back on the original plan of them just buying my set from me. Then I trekked down to the XYZ Gaming booth, where I had a couple other friends working. We had a chat, I picked up a new pocket game and some dice, then I went to meet up with my congoing buddies to have lunch and go play Cthulhu. The game itself had the potential to be fun, but we suffered from an unprepared DM. He kept flipping back and forth through the module he was running and didn't seem to have a good sense of pacing. It was a 3 hour session made up of: 2 and a half hours of roleplay and mundane character development, 25 minutes of intrigue and mysterious happenings, and 5 minutes of actual eldritch horror and mayhem. It was grossly unbalanced and almost not fun. I got a bit of entertainment out of some typos on my character sheet. First, everyone else had English specified on their list of known languages, and most had a second language as well. I had nothing. I understand that it was a typo and that I should assume that my character knew English, but it was fun to entertain the possibility of playing a mute character. The other typo related to my stats. In this system, the "average" stat rating for a normal person was 50. Some people were below average with scores of 40 or 45, some were above average at 65, and some were really high with scores of 70. My intelligence rating was 13... which basically made me a caveman. I didn't roleplay it quite that far, but I had fun playing a stupid character. When we were done with that, we went to a Q&A panel for C Team, an offshoot of the main Acquisitions Incorporated Penny Arcade D&D group. It was... something. It was an hour panel that had 30 minutes of pee jokes. I complained, but I didn't really mind. Later that night, we did the Helios Grand Escape room. It was definitely something! We were split into various factions and given a series of cryptography puzzles to solve. Along the way, we were also supposed to be trading resources and accumulating points. Resources of different types were worth different amounts to different groups, so it made trading up a possibility. We apparently had one of the hardest tracks of puzzles for our group, but we didn't do that well compared to the other groups. We went back to the hotel room after that and passed out.

Saturday was going to be my D&D and gaming day. I made a post on Discord offering my DM services to anyone who just picked up Weave and wanted to try out their first real game. I didn't get any bites, unfortunately. I showed my face at the booth again, but no one recognized me, so I decided to sandbag them a little. I participated in a demo and let them explain the game to me. A couple times, I pulled out my phone to check my messages and flashed my Weave phone case at the booth worker. They didn't notice. Even Mike didn't recognize me. I gave them a pass though. It's a big convention and they're probably talking to a lot of people. I went down to the RPGs and ran through a session of D&D Adventurers' League. It was fun, except for the fact that all my character advancement from PAX East was useless because they changed the rules in between conventions. I went ahead and leveled my wizard up anyway. No one is going to blink if I have a level 2 character and I'm not planning on taking this track very seriously. It's just that level 2 wizards are so much more interesting. I met up with my con friends for lunch, and then we tried for another Adventurers' League session together. They were all full, so we went to an Acquisitions Incorporated session instead. We were still level 1, so transfer was easy. That session was short, but entertaining. We retrieved a statue and a flesh golem and that was it. It's not the true RPG experience I keep looking for, but it'd be hard for a convention to offer a long-form campaign to con goers for the weekend. We grabbed dinner and went our separate ways again. Then my weekend really took off. My buddy from XYZ Gaming messaged me that he was putting together a session of the Aliens RPG and wanted to know if I wanted in. I said yes, of course. I didn't really know what I was getting myself into. I met up with a bunch of his buddies who were actually publishers, content creators, and managers for other gaming companies. I was sitting at a table full of industry veterans and expected to hold my own. Fortunately, I held my own with gusto. We basically played through the plot of the first Alien movie. I played the corporate stooge who received secret orders to make sure that the crew commandeered the derelict science vessel and returned all "xenomorphic" data and specimens to HQ. Of course, everything went wrong really quickly after that, but we were roleplaying up a storm and having a lot of fun. I had three very cinematic moments for my character(s). I had an ability that allowed me to throw one of the other characters into the way of an attack meant for me, which I did to the engineer when the xenomorph came after me. He got impaled by the tail spike, then the DM handed him a new card full of info. It turned out that he was an android and being "killed" reverted him to the other personality and gave him access to increased strength. It was so cool! My character ran away to the med bay, thinking only of getting his hands on the vaccine. I injected myself with it, without seeing the black ooze in the tube. The corrupted vaccine promptly transformed me into an abomination and I escaped through the vents. I attempted to murder one of the other crewmen and got killed. The DM handed me another character sheet, giving me control over one of the NPCs. Now I was the science vessel's medic, and the one responsible for "corrupting" the vaccine that transformed my other character. Later, I was getting attacked by the former captain (now another abomination) when I grabbed hold of a syringe. Reasoning that the only way to survive this was to become my enemy, I injected myself, forgetting that my character had already taken the vaccine and didn't transform. Turns out I had grabbed a powerful sedative and had just put myself to sleep. The captain eviscerated me and that was that. The android and the hauler were the only ones left alive at the end, with the android shoving the hauler into an escape pod and ejecting him into space. We all revealed our hidden agendas at the end. It turned out the hauler only had things like "your crew is your family. You will protect them at all costs" and the like. He was the goody-goody in a sea of underhanded and mildly evil crewmates. It was so fitting that he survived. By then it was 1:30 or 2:00, so I just went to bed.

We planned to come home on Sunday, so the morning was going to be short. I stopped down in the expo hall again and picked up a charity Board Game Booster Box that had a bunch of random games in it. They were mostly crap. But the cool part of Sunday was when I met up with the same people I played Alien with and we played a game that's still in beta. It was called Parselings. The basic idea is that all/most of the characters have one-word aspects of their character written on their bodies. By combining their words with other characters' words, they can use those concepts to affect reality. Our session was a basic kill-and-retrieve quest, but we still roleplayed the hell out of it. Our "Parse" involved the central word of "tone" and the enhancement words of "peak" and "volatile". It manifested in a sonic wave attack that shattered the junkyard monster that was attacking us. Once we were done, the creator/owner asked what I thought of the system. I gave some positive feedback. Then he asked me for feedback on an RPG setting his company was working on called Shadow Tantrum. The setting is basically like Starcraft, where humans are colonizing a world and having to deal with the natives. It's just a setting, adaptable to any RPG system. I had never heard of a product like this and didn't have a whole lot of interest in playing it, but he asked for my feedback anyway. I saw a hole in the niches that his races were filling. With goblins, dwarves, humans, and a proprietary race called the Konzah (somewhere between Klingons and WoW Orcs), they were missing a race that appealed to feminism. All their races were hyper-masculine and I thought they could get a lot of mileage out of adding a more feminine race (probably not elves). His eyes went wide and he immediately began making notes.

Then we had a discussion that made me put something into words that had been bothering me for a long time about myself. Outside of a very small circle of people and concepts, I'm not used to people respecting or soliciting my decisions or opinions. I'm comfortable giving my opinions at work and I'm used to making decisions related to whatever project I'm working on, but even that has a very small comfort zone. I learned through my talk with this guy at PAXU that my buddy from XYZ Gaming had actually recommended getting me to play Parselings and soliciting my feedback. He actually saw me as a smart and respectable game tester who could give valuable feedback. I must've been beat red during this discussion. It was so amazing. I had felt so intimidated after the Alien game, once I learned who everyone was. I see myself as a simple fanfiction author, and not even a very good one. I've only got one, extremely derivative, work under my belt. I'm a fan, and the more "professional" people should be far too busy to ask me my opinion. And here I am..... networking? I'm becoming friends with..... industry professionals? I even ran into one of the other Alien players (the one I threw into the alien attack), and I learned that he's also a Weave playset author. He complimented me on my roleplaying and asked if we could trade playset templates. What the actual hell!?

I dunno man... that ending was the capstone of an amazing weekend. I'm blown away. I'm so excited to see where this facet of my life goes.
