---
title: Last-Gam
category: game development
---
I went back through my older posts on this blog, just to have something to read. I got all the way through my 2013 posts, which were mostly about my participation in One Game A Month (1GAM) and I wondered what that community was up to, and now I'm sad.

After I completed the 1GAM challenge in 2013, the challenge continued. Month after month, the organizer would put together a keynote speech and thousands of people would flock in to start the challenge. I peaked back at it occasionally, checked to see whether I was still on the high scores list, and listened to the keynote. I never went back to do the challenge. Doing it once was plenty for me. I learned that 2018 was the last year that it ran.

I'm not sure how I feel about this. It's true that this was one guy hosting a simple website and picking a random word from the dictionary to use for a theme every month. I imagine that participation fell and kept falling. The organizer posted all the numbers. They're disappointing on the one hand, but make me extremely proud of myself on the other hand. Over 17,000 people signed up for the challenge, which is already huge. But only around 3,500 of them even submitted one game. That's actually pretty terrible. Of all of them, I get to be one of the proud 218 people who actually completed the challenge and submitted 12 games or more. The challenge had a 1.2% success rate... I can't believe it. I mean, I thought it was hard, but I didn't know just **how** hard until I saw that number. Maybe most of the people thought it was pointless after the first few months. But even that first difference, 15,000 people never even started. That's just awe-inspiring.

The other awe-inspiring thing is my high score. You'll recall that this was game-ified, with achievements for doing certain things like actually completing the games, posting about them on social media, reviewing someone else's game, actually selling a game you made. The biggest scoring achievements were, of course, the combos. Every consecutive month that you completed a game netted you a really large number of points. Since I'm one of the few who actually completed 12 games in 12 months, I have the 64th highest score in the community. That's also amazing!!!

I knew that this couldn't last forever, but I'm still sad to see it die. All but one of my games are archived over on my [Games](/creations/games.html) page. That last one was Bently's Chemistry Lab, my first foray into HTML5 game development. I completed the game, but couldn't figure out how to package it for distribution. You can check out the source code for that [here](https://github.com/joedono/06-Jun-1GAM-Bentlys-Chemistry-Lab).

I'll never forget how much the challenge did for me. It completely transformed me from a floundering game developer to one who is secure in his tools and actually has some completed projects he can be proud of. Thank you, McFunkyPants, for the inspiration you provided to us nameless thousands of fledgling game developers.
