---
title: At the Con
category: rant
---
So... I'm at the con for the weekend... sitting in the hotel room... waiting for stuff to start happening. I had the perfect opportunity to be social this morning while waiting in line for concert tickets, and I stupidly decided to sit there and wait for a very specific group of people I was sitting next to say, "I'm bored. I wish someone would break out a game." I have no idea why I did that. I just spend the entire time on my phone. I'm supposed to be past this. I suppose I still don't really feel like I'm at a convention again. I miss having a convention group. Everyone I know here is working. I was walking out of the amv contest and the former coordinator said hi to me. I stopped and stood next to him for a little bit, expecting to be able to strike up a conversation, before I realized he was concentrating on collecting the ballots. I went to one of the game shows and saw a bunch of people I knew working tech. I was only there for 5 minutes before they had some emergency they had to deal with.

I'm also being shy about asking people for photos. That's **never** happened before. Well, maybe it has, but not for a long time. I could blame this on not knowing what to do with my newfound freedom, but I also seem to have forgotten what to do at a convention. Or at least, what to do so I can maybe make some friends.

I'm saying all of this, but I know exactly what I'm going to do today. I have a "social" engagement thingy at noon in live gaming where I'm going to learn to play a card game with a bunch of strangers. That'll be just what I want. I'm also already getting texts from one of my staffers, wanting to talk about stuff and hang out or something.

So maybe my life at the moment isn't all that bad. I'm just depressed because I have an hour to myself with absolutely nothing to do and no one to see. And I miss my wife. I know this is the best weekend of her year and I know that means she doesn't have time for me. But it would sure be nice to see her. I'm caught in the paradox of not wanting to give anything more to this convention but wanting the social aspect of being more involved. I dunno. I relish in the fact that I don't have to work the weekend of, but I'm starved for something to do *with* people. That was the thing that I think eventually led to the breakup of my original convention going group. Our interests diverged and we stopped going to conventions as a group activity. We lost interest in doing things at conventions because we were old hats at it. We didn't like going to see new premieres or concerts or videos or anything other than the dealers room, really. Conventions lost all magic for us. I think the magic is gone for me too, and it's too early for it to be there for my son.

I think I need a thought experiment. Given the choice, setting aside all external obligations, do I want to be here at this convention? Do I think it was worth the travel time and everything to come here? Right now, probably not. But then, conventions only give you what you put into them. If all you do is spend the entire time babysitting a kid who is more interested in playing with the railings and going up and down stairs, then of course the convention isn't going to feel worth it. But I had fun at the big photoshoot and I made the best of the live gaming session, despite the game itself not being very interesting.

That's probably all there is to it, huh? Stop feeling sorry for yourself, get out of this funk, and go **DO** stuff at the convention.