---
title: Dr. Stone
category: general
---
Maybe I should finally create an "anime" category for this site...

I picked up the manga for Dr. Stone, a new anime series that a friend has been raving about. I breezed through about 100 chapters in two days. It's really good. Unfortunately, that also means I don't remember a whole lot, so I'm hoping writing it all out will help me remember so I can chat with my friend about it.

The basic premise is that, one day in 2019, a mysterious light washed out over the world and turned all the humans to stone. 3,700 years pass as nature is allowed to run its course without interference since none of the animals were turned (except swallows, for some reason). Then science whiz-kid Senku breaks out of his stone and sets to work rebuilding society. 6 months later, his best friend Taiju also wakes up. They set about rebuilding civilization together from absolutely nothing.

It has a real "Lord of the Flies" feeling at first. Two people, no rules, no resources, and no support. But Senku immediately starts them on the goal of rebuilding society, figuring out why they were revived, and advancing civilization to the point it was at in 2019. The first conflict comes when they are forced to revive Tsukasa, the "strongest primate high schooler" to save them from a pack of lions. Of course, a difference in ideals between Tsukasa and Senku results in them parting ways and declaring war on each other. They go off to form the Kingdom of Science and the Empire of Might, which of course, eventually come to war.

A few things really won me over with this series.

First, Senku isn't perfect. He gets stumped, usually by not having enough supplies, being caught in a situation he has to talk himself out of, or being stealthy. He's a master delegator, but he still has to rely on other people. He's a master chemist, but he's terrible at making anything requiring dexterity or accuracy. He has all the physical strength of a blade of grass. He's like a D&D character with maxed out intelligence and charisma, but average wisdom and nothing for strength and dexterity. Having an incomplete main character means the rest of the cast can shine. And I like me an ensemble cast.

Second was how the show portrays science. The definition of science is actually incredibly simple. Science doesn't actually care about any of the rules that come out of it. Science just describes the process of forming a hypothesis, performing experiments, and either proving or disproving the hypothesis. That's it. Come up with a rule, test the rule, confirm or deny the rule. Senku drives this point home anytime someone says that there's something "science can't explain." And the slow/steady progress of science is a constant theme. Most of the inventions Senku revives have to come from scratch, base materials from the environment. He goes through an immense amount of activity just to gather iron to make the first electro-magnet.

Third was how the other characters, especially the others revived from the modern era, react to Senku's declarations. At one point, Senku declares "we're going to build a smartphone" and the revived characters all react like he's being ridiculous. I did too. Then I saw him draw out his plan. It's true that "smartphone" was inaccurate and they're actually inventing "transmission radio," but telecommunication was still a big impressive step. Then they actually went and did it. Not only did they do it, but the authors didn't just handwave around the process. They wrote out how to gather the materials and how the manufacturing was actually done. Senku had to invent a wire spinner to weave extremely thin gold wires for the circuits. He then came up with the brilliant idea to test the spinner making something more innocuous: cotton candy. Honestly, the side inventions that come out of the steps towards the main goal of the various invention processes are just as interesting as the goal itself. Watching Senku slowly and surely work through the practical steps towards getting to his inventions is amazing.

Finally, this is the first story I've read where there is something fundamentally wrong with the world and there is a character who wants to figure out what it is. This was also the case in Claymore, Trigun, Attack on Titan, and Hunter X Hunter. The world is a certain way, and most of the cast just accepts it for what it is, but there is a deeper mystery around it. A conspiracy that is slowly revealed. In some cases, the conspiracy isn't even hinted at until we're a couple seasons in. It's so refreshing that there is a character who is working towards figuring out the petrification ray right off the bat. He just needs to bring civilization to a certain point before he can get there. The manga hasn't reached this point yet, but I'm really looking forward to the answer to this mystery.
