---
title: Thinking about Inktober
category: art
---
I had completely forgotten that this was coming up. Inktober. Seems like no matter your hobby, there's some sort of "marathon" event organized online. Game dev has hundreds of game jams, including the internationally known ones like Global Game Jam and Ludum Dare. Writing has NaNoWriMo. And now I remember that art has Inktober. It's "officially" targeted at ink art, which I'm not sure I want to get into just yet. I'm thinking about participating, but I'll stick with sketching for now. I probably won't venture outside of sketching until the end of the year...maybe.

I gotta say, I haven't noticed that my sketching has actually improved due to the practice. It's improved more due to my discovery of the "initial sketch" technique that I mentioned in an earlier post. I'm actually able to get proportions reasonably right. I just finished a set of the Pokemon Gen 1 starters and stuck them on my Art page. I'm still struggling with the more subtle proportions. Bulbasaur and Pikachu look really good. Charmander's head is too pointy and Squirtle's shell isn't round enough. Squirtle and Charmander's feet also don't sit right. They're lopsided and look like one is in the air. So I still have some perspective things to work on. Maybe actually drawing the floor will help? This is the sort of thing that having an actual art instructor would help with tremendously. The sort who can show me some of these tips and tricks that I don't know I don't know. My wife has a minor in creative art, or something. She sat me down and taught me about facial proportion lines. The way you determine where the eyes, nose, and mouth sit on a face and what angle they should be at depending on where the face is looking. I sort of knew about that one already, so I was able to ask some intelligent questions about it. But there are probably a good amount of other techniques that I don't know about and haven't ever occurred to me.

So I'm going to keep going. I like sketching. I like having something that can take up all of my focus for a little while. I *really* like having a hobby where I can get into and out of the flow really easily. With gaming and programming, the ramp-up time for me to get into a flow and be really productive is a lot longer than other hobbies. I have to basically re-enter the entire application into my head, remember where all the missing pieces are and the stubs I've already created that a new piece has to hook in to. With art, it's all there on the page. It's a single sheet of paper or less. It's **so** much less information I have to read into my active memory before I can get started. That might change as my drawings get more complex, but with the really simple cartoon characters, I can pick up and pause at any time. I also really like the simplicity of it. I can do it anywhere, and all I need is my pad and pencil. I don't need an easel, paint, my computer, the internet, or even a lot of time. I can bang out a simple drawing in 30 minutes, or I can start a drawing that will take me 3 hours and make noticeable progress on it in 10 minute chunks or less. The only time I spend not drawing is spent deciding what to draw.

It's just so damned convenient!!

Of course, that will change if I keep going. I'll need more tools so I can make more complex art. When I finally introduce color, that'll be a whole new set of tools to work with. When I flip to digital art, that'll reset me back to needing my computer. Maybe I'll invest in a tablet at that point. Something I can take around with me. I tried doing that with my smartphone and a stylus, but I didn't think it was accurate enough for my purposes. My end goal was always to get art that I think is good enough to put in my games, and everywhere I looked said to start with basic, normal art rather than jumping straight into making digital art. That might be the wrong road, now that I think about it, but I'm enjoying my new hobby too much to care. I'm hoping now that, when I finally go back to Bump in the Night, the Convention Planner, or whatever other project I'm working on that requires art, I'll be much better at creating it myself.

So anyway, Inktober starts in a couple weeks. I'm going to cheat and stick with pencil for the month. We'll see how it goes from there!
