---
title: Giving Back
category: tabletop
---
I'm basically considering Iron & Salt finished. My wife/editor still has a couple more cards to look through, but I'm done actively looking for problems myself. I think it's set and ready for publishing, but we'll see what the Weave folks think.

So, I've turned my attention to other projects.

First, I distilled I&S down to a template and shared it with the Weave community. I definitely think that I lean much harder towards the Engineering side of career paths, so I'm more open to using weird tech to help me basically write a book. Hence why I've stuck with the Markdown format and using GitHub to track changes to the set. As far as I know, most of the other authors use Google Sheets to write their set since it's completely portable and easy to share. My problem with that approach is that Google Drive is blocked at work. So, markdown it is. We'll see if anyone takes advantage of the format.

Using plain text and a clearly defined syntax also allows me to create some rather interesting tools to help with playtesting. In the beginning, I wrote a script for randomized character generation, which led me to some interesting conclusions about what my set could do when certain traits were combined with each other. I did the same for story base, although I didn't use that script nearly as much. It was much more fun to just draw the cards and I didn't have to send the story base to anyone. I wrote a script that generated character creation templates so I could easily create the text files I send to my players for them to generate characters off of. That was cumbersome, but interesting to write. It certainly cut my preparation time down.

Then I got an idea..... an awful idea.... a wonderful... awful idea. (I've been reading too much How the Grinch Stole Christmas). I wrote a script that read in my entire playset and dumped it out as JSON (I eventually switched to YAML instead, but the point was to dump the set into data). I had been wanting a simple project to build using Ruby on Rails to get my feet wetter than the tutorial made them, especially since the tutorial I was using switched over to "preview mode" where you could only get the first chapter for free online. So I took my YAML playset data file, and created a Character Generator website for my set! I tried it out during a session this past weekend, and it worked beautifully! When I got started, and I was just copy-pasting to build the character templates, my prep time for a session would be about an hour. After I wrote the template generators, that time was cut to about 30 minutes plus a little depending on how many players I had. Not bad, but still very cumbersome. With this new site, my prep time is almost nothing. I only have to send out the link and wait for the choices to come in. I only have to prepare myself with the story base. It's amazing!! Along with wanting to try out Rails, I also wanted to try out Heroku. I didn't plan on having the site actually save any of the characters, so I didn't need persistent data storage. I also didn't need any user account management, as there was nothing to steal or protect that wasn't already going to be public at some point. It's a dead-simple wizard app, it stores a bunch of choices in session, and then loads everything from the playset data file when generating the character sheet. Wonderfully simple app that does one thing really well.

It was so much fun to work on that I'm a little disappointed that I gave it such a limited scope. I went back and added character config dumps so that players can "save" their characters and regenerate them. I added a level up feature that takes in the "saved" character and generates a new character sheet with new traits on it. I added a simple view character so that players only had to save the config and could get their sheet back any time. The only thing left that I want to add for character management is an interactive character sheet that can be bookmarked. I'd stick everything necessary to create the characters into the querystring and pull that into the session in case they load the printable version later. Now, not only can they save their characters by bookmarking them, but they'll also be able to send their characters to me as URLs instead of as text files.

I'm undecided on how much I want to publicize this site. I'd rather people use it to playtest their own sets, but I'm worried that people will just use it to datamine my set. There's also the persistent worry that the Weave guys will send me a C&D order to take the site down if I add too much stuff to it. Other features I was toying with all basically made the site into the full Weave game: random dice rollers, user accounts with saved characters, sync'd strikes and wounds, storyteller functions, etc. I don't want the app to go that direction. I'd really rather it just get used for character generation and playset testing. The biggest problem is that all the scripts I have are tailored for my playset template. I suppose if I open source it, that'll make things go differently, but I'm not comfortable with that either. I guess for now, this site will just be for people testing my playsets.

Speaking of which, one of those will probably be my next "spare time at work" project. Now that I have the playset template all figured out, it'll be a small matter to start work on another set. I just have to actually... you know... get creative with it.
