---
title: Sketching
category: art
---
That's right! A new post category!

I've been wanting to do more art lately. I had originally picked up an online How to Draw 101 course in the hopes that it would eventually turn into upgrading my skills enough to create passable art for Bump in the Night. The course wasn't that great and soured me to the experience for a little while. Then it hit me. Sketching in my little pad is the perfect way to pass time while watching my kid, especially now that he's fallen in love with a few choice online videos that grate the ears and erode the sanity. It was so much better when we could watch DuckTales, or Toy Story, or even Sesame Street together, because I honestly enjoyed watching those. But if I have to sit through another 30 minute video of a little Korean girl singing the ABCs, I'll start seeing them everywhere I go. So I picked up my sketchpad, downloaded a simple app called Sketch A Day for when I need inspiration, and I've been churning out 2-3 sketches almost every day. It's amazing!

I used to draw a little, enough that most of my previous work wasn't half bad. I had an eye for details and a long attention span. However, I was never satisfied with my work. My proportions and relative positions were always off. My eyes were too far apart, mouths were too small, one leg would be shorter than the other, and I'd have room for too many feathers. Turns out I was missing a technique I called "position outlining," but what most sources I find just call "sketching." I would try to sketch something as close to the final product as possible, when all along I should have been doing a loose sketch of the entire image I wanted, and figuring out where everything was in relation to everything else. then I'd go back and erase and move things around until everything was in the right position, then I'd do it again, then I'd go over it and make harder outlines and add details. My art got soooooooooo much better after I started doing that.

I don't think I'm quite ready to start posting my art where all my friends can see it, but I'm definitely going to start posting them here once I'm home this week. I might even create a whole new section of the site. I'll have to re-do my main navigation bubble... that'll suck. Five icons fits really well on mobile. Maybe I'll just add a link to it under my Cool Stuff area. Or I'll get rid of the separation between Websites and Games and just have a My Creations section. I actually like that. I might just do that right now.

EDIT: That's much better. Now I have to find somewhere to host them. I don't want to put them on GitHub. It's not especially for image hosting. I already have an Art repository, but it's mostly full of SVGs, which are stored as plaintext and are very good at being source controlled. But these are photos. SVG isn't a sketch medium. So my choices are things like imgur or something like photobucket. I suppose this might be what finally gets me to use Instagram, but I think those are temporary, or at least extremely hard to search. Google Photos might be an okay place. I could always go the tech route and put them on AWS. So many to choose from!
