---
title: Finale
category: tabletop
---
I've been running weekly Weave sessions of Iron & Salt this month for NaNoWriMo. I have a fairly consistent group of players, enough so that I sort of fell into a campaign-ish sort of thing. At least, it was enough that I was able to tie in one of my earlier sessions into a two-parter with the new cast. I was able to pull in characters and plot elements from previous sessions and tie it all together in a neat little apocalypse scenario.

I had considered Part 1 of this sequence to be the best game of Weave I had ever run. I successfully managed 6 players into extremely epic scenarios where they all got to play a part and use things their characters were extremely good at. Part 2 and most of the intervening sessions didn't measure up. I sought to recreate the magic I had during that previous session, so I brought back a few elements I had abandoned: the cold open and splitting the party. Giving everyone a chance to do something in smaller groups and being able to cut at dramatic moments made the session extremely enjoyable. I was able to give almost everyone a stake in the crisis, from the final boss being the infernal patron of one of the players, whose best hunting buddy had been with him through the last parts of his contract, to the two huntresses from Part 1, coming here after the death of one of the toughest hunters they had ever met, and their new best friend. It was a relatively short adventure, with just a hook and a short stint through an insane asylum with little investigation or buildup, but it got super dramatic in a hurry and left some players in tears.

I had to give credit to my players. They ate up their own drama like they were starving and all I had to do was throw a messy wrench into their plans a couple times. I was such a sadist, laughing maniacally every time I threw a curveball or dramatic twist of fate at them. They all got to use things their characters are good at. At least 3 Ultimates were used, plus a load of individual special abilities. I encountered some really cool character builds and ability combinations I hadn't considered before (Misty Step plus Apportation. Who knew?). Things got a little hairy towards the end with me giving too much time to certain character moments and not going through turn order well enough, but I don't think anyone cared. They didn't want the session to end.

I'm so surprised and humbled by how much people are getting invested in this set. I wonder if the same thing would have happened if I had run all these sessions in other sets. I don't know them nearly well enough to plan a climax like this. I didn't tell my players this, but I did actually go through and hunt for the right initial episode spread to get the ending I wanted to get to. I was so happy with the session. It ousted Part 1 as my best-run session, even if it did deviate from the investigation-and-hunt formula. It ran like later episodes of Supernatural ran, with an established hook that the characters have a stake in and a great looming crisis rather than a small-town disturbance that turned out to be a monster. All the trappings of a season finale, which is exactly what it was. As much as I like running these games, it's time for a break. I just hope someone else steps up to fill the gap. This is my only real source of playing this game and I'd hate for it to dry up.

I really don't know what I'm going to do now. I wound up spending my free time today doing more proofreading. I keep finding stuff: stunted sentences, little inconsistencies, making tiny nerfs, and adding the odd new ability as someone inspires me with a new mechanic. I was chatting with another playset writer and got the idea for a "fortune roll" where you roll 6 dice to make a pool of dice that you keep with you. Then you can use individual dice from that pool to replace dice in another challenge being rolled by anyone. I think I've finally struck a good balance between mechanical abilities and narrative abilities.

However, I think I'm also falling into the trap where I'm not actually playing the set that I've written, but the set as it exists in my head. I'm making allowances and letting the players kill things too easily for the sake of time and narrative impact. I had my players last night encounter a hallway full of zombies. Rather than stop and make them deal 8 strikes of damage to 20 individual zombies, I allowed them to deal with a few in one hit and escape with some creative use of teleportation spells. I suppose that's an instance of my players saving me from having to deal with my own bad narrative timing. They wouldn't have had enough time to interrupt the dramatic scene playing out later... maybe it would have worked out, but it certainly wouldn't have ended in time for midnight.
