---
title: Drawing
category: general
---
I just got back from a vacation at the family cabin, and I've been bitten again by a desire to pick up a new hobby. I've always thought that my life lacked an artistic flair, despite the fact that people sometimes tell me that I have talent. I brought my sketchpad with me to the cabin and did some exercises. I want to try getting into drawing everyday again. Not that I was ever that consistent about it. Even back when I was taking the online course on it, I couldn't bring myself to do a lesson every day. I eventually left the course.

So, I downloaded an app called Sketch a Day. All it does is give you a word every day to use as inspiration for a drawing. There's a bit more to it. You can share what you've created and comment on what other people have created. There's also a handy link that sends you to google image search for inspiration from other drawings. I actually really like pencil-sketching. I'm okay with it. I have a reasonable good command of shading and shapes. I fall short in relative sizes. How tall is one building vs another? How wide is a person's face vs their waist. Things like that. It throws a lot of my stuff out of proportions. Proportion! That's the word I was thinking of. My end goal will be to get better at art for games, but I'll settle for just having an artistic outlet in my life.

And I love pencil sketching because it's cheap. I have loads of spare mechanical pencil lead from high school and college and I still haven't gone through my sketchpad from middle school. I **really** want to get better at this, but I apparently don't want it badly enough to actually start and stick to drawing something every day. I think what I need is something I already do every day that I can either replace with this or do at the same time as this. I'm going to try to do t whenever I'm watching my son. Having my drawing interrupted isn't that bad. It effectively auto-saves itself every second, unlike video games. So that's what I'll do. Not to mention that I'll be a good inspiration to my son. If he sees me being artistic, there's a good chance he'll want to try it himself in earnest when he's older. Won't that be a treat?
