---
title: Done!!
category: tabletop
---
I... did it... I actually, finally did it. After working on it for nearly a year, I've finally finished Iron & Salt!!!!!

And over a week ahead of schedule too. I had planned on working on it up to the end of the month, but I'm actually done with it already. I'm sure there are typos and some grammer errors, but I'm reasonably certain I've eliminated all the inconsistencies and plot holes (not that there were many of those). I've filled in all the mechanics I want. Everything has a character sheet. All the Talents are balanced for lower and higher level characters. I've even put together a short credits document, assuming I'll have some place to put that.

I'm in talks with the game company about purchasing the set. They're offering a pretty penny as a base for a set that requires more work, like not having cover art or requiring that mechanics be written. I'm as complete as I can possibly be for the current ruleset. I have cover art, all the mechanics I originally wanted to put in and no plans to add more, and... everything else. I have no basis for this, considering the only other one I played was Prospect City, but I'm pretty sure I have the most complete community-written playset... period.

I'm definitely the most active storyteller on the Discord server. I've only ever seen one other person post in the LFG chat offering to run a game. It's almost always me. But hey, I really like doing it, and I have a reasonably consistent group of people show up for games.

I'm not sure what I'm going to do with myself now. This playset was what I went to when I had nothing else to do at work. It took the place of this blog for a while. I suppose I could go back to game programming, but I'm probably going to hover around the playset for a couple more weeks. It has been **STRONGLY** hinted to me that they're going to announce my set (along with 3 others) at PAX Unplugged in a couple weeks. I'm already planning on being there, but now I have a personal stake in one of the events.

I seriously don't know what to do with myself now. It still hasn't sunk in that I'm done. Maybe I'm resisting the idea because I think I still have more proofreading to do.

I know what I'm going to do at this moment. I'm going to get up from my desk and go stretch.

Ah..... feels good man. I always feel a little stupid that I didn't start doing this sooner. Every day (or as often as I remember), I head to the gym at work and just stretch for a bit. It makes me feel sooooo much better during the day.
