---
title: GenCon
category: tabletop
---
I'm about a week late, but here's my thoughts and summary of my time at my first GenCon.

Overall, it averaged out. I had some really high highs and some really low lows. We left Wednesday night and drove until Thursday morning. I got precious little sleep on the car ride and spent most of Thursday running on fumes. Not that I noticed. I felt pretty full of energy until I didn't have anything to focus on, then I crashed...hard...into bed.

### Thursday
We spent the first half of the day getting situated, checking into our hotel, parking the car, that sort of thing. The first thing I did was Dragon Pet, where I spent 3 hours making a dragon hand puppet out of foam, fabric, and copious amounts of hot glue. Not at all related to table-top gaming, but fun nonetheless. I still haven't shown the puppet to my son, but I really hope he'll get a kick out of it. Then I had my first low. I had 2 hours to kill and could do absolutely nothing. Literally everything was ticketed. I couldn't even kill a few hours in the video game room. I would have had to purchase playtime separately. I understood why this event was run this way. It's different at Anime Boston where most of the events can accommodate a couple hundred people without issue. You only have to ticket the really popular events. But when you're signing up to play a board game with a max of 4 people, you absolutely have to make sure you don't go over that, so it makes sense for the majority of the event to be ticketed. I got used to that fact quickly, but not before Thursday was over.

So I was miserable for a couple hours, then I went to play a game called Dad Jokes. I was not expecting what I got for that. If you've ever played Cards Against Humanity then this game is easy to understand. The designer had taken about 120 popular dad jokes, taken the first half of each one and made them into the black cards, then taken the second half, sliced it up by word, and made each word into a white card. The "presenter" reads off the black card, and the rest pick any number of white cards to try and make a punchline. It was terrible. Everything was so random it wasn't funny at all. It took until round 5 for us to even laugh a little at the jokes. When it was over, the other players all left and the designer asked me for feedback. Honestly, his game sucked and I told him so. I told him his concept didn't work and that the cards were too random and granular to make anything approaching funny.

Thursday night was probably the best night of the weekend. I met with a few people from the Weave Discord. It was the first time I had met any of them in the flesh. We talked about the miserable state of the game's management and how much we lamented that such a cool system was being so mismanaged. Still, it was nice to meet with them for a bit before I ran off to do Odin's Redux. This was something known as a True Dungeon. It's a mixture of haunted trail, escape room, and traditional D&D. And it's DEEP. Odin's Redux is a type known as a "sealed quest," which I'll explain later. I arrived, got a bag full of ten tokens that made up my starting gear, went into a room with 7 other people, picked a class, and arranged my starting equipment on my character sheet. I played a Wizard, so I had to say goodbye to the throwing club and knight's helm, but I was able to use or trade most of the other stuff. The DM made notes of all our stats and we were ushered into the training room. The people playing physical classes went to a shuffleboard to practice attacking while I went to the dedicated wizard's section. There was a diagram of the planes of existence, which I had to memorize. Correctly answering where a given plane was would give me a bonus to my spell damage. Then off we went. There were 7 rooms in total and it was a complete blast! Half were puzzle rooms that ranged from touching lanterns in a specific order, to navigating a ship by magnet, to singing a mead hall song. The other half were combat encounters. Once I figured out that my magic wand did very little damage, I started leaning into my spells a little more. I...got...every...SINGLE...PLANE...BONUS...QUESTION...RIGHT!!! The outer rings were easy and I had a few quick mnemonics to remember the inner rings. I kicked so much ass! I raved about this to my con-mates and they all want to come with me the next time. Too bad the company that runs this only really tours the midwest... So I mentioned this going DEEP. I got to keep the ten starting tokens, I received another ten for participating, and got three rare tokens for completing the dungeon. I got to take those home and work on building a specific character for one of the other dungeons. If I got to one that's not a "sealed quest" then I get to bring my own tokens. Most of what I got was common junk, but I can apparently mail a bunch of those to the company and they'll send me crafting material that I can use to make rarer items. It's snail mail the whole way and I definitely won't be diving into that at all, but some people there were talking about mailing back hundreds of common tokens to get crafting materials. It was crazy!

The only other thing I did on Thursday was stop by the Greater Than Gaming booth to check out what Weave was doing. Apparently, their grand experiment that everyone was excited for wasn't going to start until Friday. Disappointing, but I could wait.

### Friday
Friday was my full day. I only ever had an hour of free time before my next thing. First up was Fluxx, a game I was very familiar with. I played with a family of three and a dealer, which was kind of fun. We played Dr Who Fluxx, Monty Python Fluxx, and Firefly Fluxx. The first two were fun, but the family hadn't seen Firefly, so all the references were lost on them.

Next up was the Bloodbourne card game, which was a LOT of fun. The dealer said he was disappointed that our monster's dice were rolling so poorly. We only had one death in a game that is supposed to have 5 or 6 per player before the game is over. I eventually squeaked out a win and got the limited edition playmat we were using. Not only do none of my table-top gaming friends live nearby, but I'm the only person I know who likes SoulsBourne at all. I sold the playmat to one of the other players, and he offered to hook me up with free shipping at his art store. He makes grimdark posters for things like Bloodbourne and Berserk, so I'm definitely going to be hitting that up eventually.

Next up was the Pandemic board game. I played that with one other person and the disease won both times, but it was a lot of fun to be very tactical with another person who was equally tactical. I might have bought the game later if I thought there was any chance I would play it with anyone.

Next was the Open Flow Jam. That was a weird experience. First, I was kicked out of the room by the bellydancing panel because they didn't know the room was double-booked. It made sense to double book the room like this. There's a lot of crossover interest between flow and bellydancing. Either way, we got everything straightened out and I borrowed a set of poi and went to work. I quickly got very self-conscious. I was clearly the most advanced poi-spinner there. There were a couple of hoopers who were really good, but there were only three absolute beginner spinners and one intermediate spinner. I kindof went off into a corner by myself to do my own thing and tried not to be a distraction. I eventually realized that was a stupid idea and came to help the beginners out for a bit. That was kind of nice.

The last thing I did Friday night was Cards Against Humanity, which was a complete disaster for me because I didn't know any of the people I was playing with and didn't know what jokes might go too far. The between-turn banter I usually get was completely nonexistent too. The day averaged out to be pretty even.

### Saturday
Saturday started with Jedi Yoga, which is just like regular yoga only with the tenants of yoga translated into the Jedi code and with the poses renamed to give homage to one Jedi or another. It was very refreshing and a lot of fun! The trainer mentioned that after months, he still had not memorized the Jedi code, while it only took him a minute to memorize the Sith code. That speaks for itself.

After that, I went to a beginner ballroom dancing class, which was fun in itself, but a complete waste of my time. Even after all these years on break, I couldn't even call this a refresher course. I was just bored the whole time.

After that, I tracked down one of the elusive open-gaming areas and posted that I would be there for a few hours if anyone wanted to come play Weave. I met my cousin and we talked about what games we were into. I was extremely surprised to find out that his entire family played D&D. I didn't think they'd be into that. A couple people from the Discord showed up and we started in on a Weave game in Gloomies. This was my second time playing with the new rules, and the playset hadn't been updated yet, so we struggled a little bit, but it was still a ton of fun! Saturday was also the day where I finally made it to the Weave booth and found out that the experiment was a beta program with digital cards and digital dice. The cards were okay, but inconsistent with their prompts, and the dice were kind of terrible. They would roll off screen and sometimes land on their corners. Like I said though, the game was still fun.

Saturday night was the biggest waste of my time the entire weekend. I took a plunge and went to the Cosplay Deviants party. I should have expected what I got, but I was too hopeful. It was a generic party at a crowded nightclub. It had one girl for every 20 guys, and they all kept to the VIP area. I tried to have a little fun on the dancefloor, but called it an early night and went to bed.

### Sunday
I played another Weave game on Sunday. This one was much more of a disaster. The storyteller wanted to try playing with everyone at max level (or rather, as "classic" Weave characters), but there was a problem. If any of the players exited their character sheet, they would lose access to it and have to start from scratch. As a result, our session started with two lvl 10 characters, three lvl 8, two level 4, and me and one other person at lvl 2. We all had other places to be that afternoon, so it had to be a short game. But we got through it and had some really good laughs. I even learned that one of the other players, who I had loaned my entire playset to, was STILL playing it after 6 months. She and her players were having an absolute blast with it. I got the warm fuzzies from that :).

The last thing we did before we left to go home was the Dragon's Lair escape room. My and my con-mates were set up with 5 other people and sent through a series of escape rooms with a real variety of puzzles. My favorite was probably where we were sent to jail and had to communicate through the bars because half of a puzzle was on one side and the other half was on the other side. The last room had us channeling the elements in sequence to defeat a really big animatronic dragon head. It kept taunting us as we threw magic at it and was a highlight of the weekend.

That night, we played a few of the board games that one of my con-mates bought. We were mission control on the Apollo XIII mission and were in charge of getting the astronauts back safely. We lost, but only because we forgot one of the game's central mechanics that would have let us do more on other people's turns. Still though, lots of fun even if it was really late.

### Final Thoughts
I had a great time overall! I think the next time I go will be even better now that I better understand the structure of the convention. I would have loved to purchase playtime in the Prototyping Room, where game designers showcase their in-development games and get feedback from players. I love that sort of thing. I might even take another plunge and try to make it to something Critical Role related...lol.
