---
title: Hybrids
category: tabletop
---
Today I started writing my Hybrids playset. I'm basically starting with outlining every quality in the playset and then I'll start filling things in. As I run into things that don't work or are duplicates, I'll change them. The important thing isn't to have anything final at this point, but just to fill in the blanks until I've got a basis for everything. Then I can tweak it and alter it and rewrite it as much as I like.

I'm thinking that, before I get too much farther into writing qualities, I have to set up the world a little more. I'm not going to be able to write backstory elements for characters who spent their entire lives in this city without knowing what's actually IN the city. So I think I'm going to finish the Talents (filling in a couple Flaws and Backstories along the way), then I'll move to Locations, then I'll fill in NPCs and Enemies and maybe Bosses. I'm actually thinking of making a map of the city first. I wonder if the Xorte author made a map of Xorte before he/she started writing things.

Making the map will force me to think of a whole bunch of other things. Where do the governing live? Where do the poor live? What sort of industrial buildings are there? Where are the places to work? What sorts of environments are available in the city? Are there parks? Cold places? Hot places? Does it look like the city in Zootopia where the city is divided into slivers based on the type of creatures that live there? Or is the city a complete hodgepodge of environments, all combining to make something relatively uniform. Are there specialized living conditions for creatures with specific weaknesses? How do creatures weak to sunlight get around? What about iron? Are there any hybrid monsters with abilities so powerful, that they've become central aspects of the city, like how Steelheart turned all of Newcago to steel and Regalia flooded all of NYC and turned it into Babilar? What abilities make someone well suited for public works departments? Do demons work as firefighters? Vampires as night watchmen? Fairies as bankers? Will the whole thing function like My Hero Academia, where the only difference comes from beings with extreme abilties while life goes largely unchanged for the rest of us? I have a lot of things to think about, and it all stems from the setting.

My first idea is to stick the city in the crater of a dormant volcano in the Artic Circle. Most of it is protected by a dome that's part technological and part magical, but there are probably some settlements inhabited by descendants of sasquatches and wendigo that live just outside the dome. Inside of the dome is a city that's been developed for 150 years by creatures with fantastic abilities and some understanding of human technology circa 2087 (the near-ish future). Despite the year actually being 2237, it's likely that the technology of the monster city won't differ all that much from what we have nowadays in 2019. They'll have cell phones, heavily censored internet (for their own protection, of course), tailoring, television, radio might be dead but there will still be ham radio enthusiasts, there might even be monster programmers. The important feeling to convey is a background fear of discovery. Something to evoke the same feeling the characters in Attack on Titan had. The wall offered great protection, but the world outside was a dangerous nightmare. Human patrols probably come periodically in the form of scouting drones, but are thwarted by a combination of the artic environment, the magic in the protective dome, heavily disciplined "human raid drills" enforced by the monster city government, and humanity's general apathy since it's been 150 years since the last monster sighting. Of course, the threat is always there, which will probably inform some of my themes. There will definitely be a theme for discovery by human military, discovery by human civilians, venturing outside for resources or something, and fear mongering by zealots within the city.

That'll be another set of questions I can ask about this city. What sorts of beliefs or religions might have popped up? Angels and Demons would be seen as nonhuman and be part of the extermination. God is no where to be found, Lucifer and the archangels are all either dead, insane, or invalid.
