---
title: Hellblade
category: gaming
---
I made a decision last week to drop Metal Gear Solid 5. It wasn't fun anymore. The missions were samey and the story should have ended already. I get that Skull Face is supposed to be the holdover boss from Peacewalker, but the first 2/3 of the game sets him up to be the big bad, and then he's just dead. Then you putz around for a few missions before this kid you rescued in an early mission takes off with your Metal Gear and now he's supposed to be the end boss. I suppose it might not have been so bad if I had actually played Peacewalker. From what my friends are saying, it's actually much better than Phantom Pain. I just couldn't get used to playing Metal Gear on a portable console. I also didn't really like the base building aspect. It sort of grew on me in Phantom Pain, but there wasn't much you could **do** with it. More and more, I'm believing that the Metal Gear Solid series isn't really a stealth game. Sure, the game becomes next to impossible to survive if you get spotted and don't bother to hide, but if you manage to stay hidden, then you only ever use 10% of your toolkit. Out of the dozens of guns I have unlocked in Phantom Pain, only four of them have silencers, and I haven't even unlocked them all. There's an entire companion, called the Walker Gear, with a massive tech tree, but he's a freaking tank! Not stealthy at all! The last straw was that I ran out of story missions and the story isn't over. I'm told that I either have to go back and finish all of these "repeat" missions that have subtitles like "Extreme" or "Total Stealth", or I have to finish completely upgrading my base. Both of these are bullshit and I'm not going to bother putting up with them anymore. So I moved on to the next game on my todo list.

Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice is a dark fantasy hack-and-slash about a psychotic Scottish warrior woman named Senua, on a vision quest through Hel to save her lover, Dillion. The game warns you repeatedly that Senua has psychosis. She hears voices in her head and very likely sees things that aren't real. This gives the entire game an air of insanity. Senua will warp between destinations without traveling. She'll pass out and wake up somewhere else. You don't know if she's dead and really journeying through Hel, if she's on a vision quest, if the entire thing is all in her mind, or if it's an allegory and just represents her journey. Whatever the case, this was a fucked up game and I enjoyed the Hel out of it.

Senua's past is revealed through psychotic flashbacks, marked by the fact that she has no facepaint on while she's experiencing them. We learn that her mother also heard voices. Her overly religious father believed the voices were a curse, a creeping darkness that would destroy their community if Senua and her mother were not cured. Unable to cure her mother, Senua's father had her burned alive and made sure Senua never left their home. Senua got out occasionally though, and eventually met Dillion, who saw her "darkness" as just an ability to see the world differently. They fell in love, but darkness followed them anyway. A plague killed Dillion's father and most of their community. Senua blamed herself and left to find peace in the wilds. She returned a year later, slightly more stable, only to find that Vikings had killed everyone and strung Dillion up in a gruesome ritual known as the "blood eagle." It was extremely gross. So, Senua departs on a journey to save Dillion from the Viking gods he was sacrificed to.

The gameplay is simple. There's no HUD. Health follows the Punch-Out model, where you get knocked down and have to mash a button to make yourself stand up. Every time, you have less time to stand up until you just don't. Every death increases a corruption that is crawling up Senua's arm. If it reaches her head, it's supposedly permadeath. Although the game wiki spoiled that for me and said that it never actually reaches her head until the end of the game when it's supposed to. Senua also has an iron mirror on her waistband that lights up whenever she has stored up enough energy to "Focus" which regains her health and slows down time for a while. Combat is your standard light and heavy attack, block, parry, dodge, and kick. And there is little variety in the enemies. Some are fast, some are slow, some have shields, and some have semi-unique skills. The first few bosses aren't much of a departure from these.

But then there's Garn. The second-to-last chapter of the story puts Senua in a dark tomb with little bits of light around. She is being stalked directly by her "darkness," manifested as Garn, a Norse equivalent to Cerberus, the hound that guards the underworld. Garn will chase and attack Senua if she ventures outside the pockets of light. Senua will have brief moments of respite when she finds a torch and a means to light it, but then there will be places where she'll have to go underwater and put the torch out. Those were really scary. Garn looks like a giant wolf with nearly all of it's flesh dropping off. The fight with Garn was one of the most intense and enjoyable fights I've had in a game since facing off against the Soul of Cinder in Dark Souls III. It was one of those fights where you finish and you realize you barely breathed or blinked for the whole thing.

The environments were kind of hit-or-miss. Most of the early ones are on an expansive beach with wrecked ships everywhere. There were way too many nooks and crannies with not enough to discover in them. The puzzle environments in the early game were okay. But it was the dark environments that really sold it. One area after defeating two of the Norse gods had Senua plunged into complete darkness. You had to follow other sensations to move forward. The controller rumbled while I was following a draft, and I heard water when I was following a stream. To add to the horror, the voices in my head would scream to warn me that there was some dark creature approaching that I would have to avoid. When I finally got a look at these creatures, they looked like bulbous masses of flesh and human limbs. Perfect for this sort of depiction of Hel.

The final chapter left a lot to be desired though. You're set up to think that the game will end with a climactic battle with Hela, the goddess of Hel who takes care of the souls who don't die in battle. She's depicted as a grey-skinned and half-burned giant human who effortlessly breaks your sword and sends you flying during your first encounter. But when you eventually get to her with your new godkiller sword, all you get is an endless battle with the average rank-and-file enemies you've been fighting all game that respawn until they kill you. Then you... take Hela's place? Senua realizes that she cannot save Dillion and so lets him go and starts on a new journey. I wasn't expecting a happy ending to a game like this. I knew she wouldn't save Dillion. But I was expecting something with a lot more emotion than plain acceptance. Either sentence Senua to eternal torment by torturing her in Hel (or looping her back to the start of the game), or actually give her a happy ending. The fact that you never actually get to fight Hela was really disappointing, but I get that there's a strong possibility that Hela wasn't real. She is burned in exactly the same way Senua's mother was burned.

So yeah, it was all-around a pretty good game. Definitely felt like the "Independent AAA Title" it was marketed as. If the ending was more emotional and you actually got to fight Hela, it would have been a perfect package. But alas, that reeks of "we ran out of time/money."

Now I have to decide what's next. Yakuza 0 and XCOM 2 are next on my todo list, but Devil May Cry 5 is coming out this week. There's also a handful of other gaming recommendations that I've put on my wishlist, like Salt & Sanctuary, Astroneer, and We Happy Few. I think I'll go with Yakuza 0. I think I need a more up-beat and less intense game after what I just went through.
