---
title: Convention Planner
category: web development
---
I've been thinking more and more about version 2 of my convention planner website that I want to build. I'm making the mistake of trying to think through the design and workflows with just my brain because I don't want to write anything down or work with anything that's graphics-heavy while I'm at work. Unfortunately, as good as I am, I can't hold the entirety of a website and build on it in my head. I downloaded a wireframing tool, but I'm hesitant to start working on it. For some reason, whenever I think about putting something on a computer or into a document, it's more permanent than if I write it down on paper. I don't know why. Maybe because I think it's harder to edit?

Well, I'm here because I want to work through this urge and maybe put down some notes on how I want the site to work. I just have to remember that the first draft is not unchangeable. I should change it. It'd be weird if I didn't.

So I know that I'll want to have user accounts. With email or username and password sign ins. I'd really like to also have 3rd party sign ins so people can sign in with their Facebook or Google account. Once they're in, users will have a few things they can do right off the bat. They can find a convention they want to go to and create a group for it or they can browse through the public groups and apply to be in one of those. That presents my first problem. If users have no way to create their own events, then I have to do it. I'd rather not have that sort of burden, so I'll have to source my event data elsewhere. I can either try to find an existing database that has it all that I can access, or have my users put in the event data when they create their groups. Now I have to start thinking about my target audience. Initially, it's just congoers, but this system can be applied to basically any kind of trip. Not that it matters very much. I'm going to have a data table that has the events in it. For now, I'll probably just source it with the events I'm going to attend. Start small, and then decide whether I want to populate the table from an API or have users add to it.

So once a user has a group they've created, they're made an "owner" of that group, which lets them do other stuff. Firstly, they can invite other users into their group and either make them owners/admins of the group or leave them as members. Now I'm getting into needing permissions. Maybe admin and member are all I need. So we have several users in a travel group that's linked to an event. They can add hotels and rooms to the group. That's another bit of source information that I either need to provide through an admin section, source from an API, or allow users to input themselves. That's the sort of thing I should be able to list from some service or API, maybe even through google maps. Hotels are just names and addresses, after all. The owners will then add rooms to the hotels. However many are reserved for the group. From there, owners can move members around in the rooms, assign them to as many or as few as they like, to account for people coming for only part of the convention. Rooms can also have a per-night cost that's separate from the budget. Maybe that doesn't make sense? It made sense when it was the only complicated part of the site in version 1, but if I'm going to have a fully fledged budget thing, maybe it doesn't make sense? No, it definitely makes sense to give them a cost per night. The budget should have an "even split" option and a "contribution split" option (to be defined below).

So that's users, groups, events, hotels, and rooms. Owners can also add vehicles. For right now, a vehicle only contains the people carpooling together. There are a ton of things I can add to this depending on the type of travel. I can add stops/addresses and integrate with Google Maps to create a route for them to take where they have a launchpad, several pickup points, and the final destination at the hotel or event. I could add gas mileage to the vehicle or ticket prices and automatically include those in the budget.

Owners can also create travel soundtracks for the group. Any user can submit songs and upvote submissions from other users in the group. This is a part I'd like to have integrated with Spotify, so that they're basically managing the Spotify playlist from within the Convention Planner. That should probably be optional. Not everyone has a Spotify account. So they can either input all the song data themselves or integrate their account with Spotify and have us create the playlist for them by using Spotify's song search functionality. The song search is probably something I can do regardless of whether the user has integrated us with Spotify or not. The Spotify search endpoint seems to allow access with just a client application token, rather than a user access token.

Something else users can do is post messages to each other. Presumably, everyone will know each other in a group, so I don't expect this to get much use. But it'll be simple enough to set up.

Finally, travel group owners will be able to create and manage a budget for the trip. I'll have to talk with my travel buddies and get their budget spreadsheet. I know that the budget will need to have expenses added to it, they can be added before or after the convention and given categories such as Travel, Room & Board, Food, Tips, Swag, and Other. Once they're added, they can be aggregated into subtotals per category and a total budget for the trip. Optionally, the budget should be able to pull data from the rooms and vehicles assigned to the travel group. Once all the expenses are in the budget, the owner should be able to generate a report either by selecting "even split" or "participation split". Even Split will divide the total amount of the budget between everyone in the travel group and come up with one number that's the same for each person. Participation Split will take into account who is staying in which hotel rooms and for how long, and who is traveling in each vehicle when dividing the cost among the group members.

So that's fine and dandy for tracking expenses, but I also have to track payments. That can be as simple as marking the budget with a split and open it up for payments. A payment comes from a group member and goes against their amount owed. That doesn't really seem to match my experience going to GenCon, so I definitely have to talk to my travel buddies and see what they did. I only had to pay for my stay in the hotel room and I was refunded all the money I spent on the rental car. Neither of my split models account for that sort of pattern.

I think for now it'll be enough to track who has made what contributions to the budget as payments. That'll at least track how much money has to come from elsewhere.

The really convenient thing I'd like to do is set up someone as the accountant for a travel group. They will be the ones who tie their merchant account to the budget. Then, group members can send that person money through the site and its integration with Venmo or PayPal. Sending money this way should be tracked as payments in my system. The real issue will have to be handling the transfer fees. As far as I know, none of these services offer a way to transfer money to other people through 3rd party integration for free, but then, I haven't looked in almost a decade.

The last user-provided thing I've thought of is food suggestions. Long trips require people to pack snacks, and some group members might have dietary restrictions. So they should be able to provide snack suggestions.

And the last feature I've thought of for this is the ability to look up the weather at the event as the date gets closer. That can be pretty important for people who wait outside for long periods with complicated costumes.

That's about it. A lot of features for different things that users can organize. The challenge now is arranging all of this into a pleasant flow for the users. How do I divide these workflows into things that are easily accessible at all stages of the journey. What is most important to the user and owner when they log in? I suppose each of these things fits neatly into one of these categories: Destination (event and weather), Journey (vehicles), Friends (duh), Sleep (hotels and rooms), Money (budget and payments). Snacks and Travel Soundtrack don't really fit into any of those though... unless I shoehorn them into Journey. They probably fit best there.

That wasn't too bad. Only took 8500 characters to describe or so. I already feel much better about designing and building this. Thanks, journal!
