---
title: Stupid Gameplay
category: rant
---
I had thought I would sit down this morning, go through a mission or two in Phantom Pain, and have a generally good day. I was wrong.

Phantom Pain has overall been pretty fun. I'm not going through it with the same restrictive limitations I put on myself in previous Metal Gear Solid games. All of them usually give you some kind of reward for a non-lethal playthrough, but then provide you with a huge variety of ways to kill people. For a stealth game, it really has a lot of non-stealth tools to play with. I've settled nicely into taking the tranq gun, a silenced machine gun with a reticle scope, and a sniper rifle on most missions. Despite that, I'm still killing an awful lot of people.

Yesterday, I went to start the next story mission and got pulled into an emergency mission. Mother Base had been invaded by an enemy force. I knew that was going to happen eventually. Mother Base has too many railings and corridors and places to hide and **LITERALLY NOTHING ELSE** for it to be anything other than a mission site at some point. Turns out there's this whole online component where you can build up your security forces, and other players can try to sneak onto your base and steal your personnel. I never saw any of the previous Metal Gear games as online-friendly, and I really wanted to get back to the story. So I finished the mission last night and left the story mission for this morning.

I went to start the story mission this morning, and I couldn't select it! Instead, I was forced to do a "practice" infiltration mission of my own Mother Base with all the security upgrades I had been buying in the hopes that I **wouldn't** get invaded. I quit the mission and got back to the helicopter. I tried to start the story mission again and got forced into the "practice" mission again. I purposely failed the mission just to get the hell out of there and was **finally** allowed to get back to the story.

The story mission was to infiltrate an airport, identify a high-ranking soldier who was going to tour the facility, and meet with my true target. I foolishly started the mission with about 20 minutes before I had to leave for work, and I started with the woodland camo. I ran almost the entire way around the airport until I finally found an entrance, then I got spotted by the security camera that had been on **NO PREVIOUS MISSIONS.** I mean, I knew they'd show up sooner or later. I had a handful of items I had researched that were specifically for use against cameras and other electronics. But for them to show up randomly like this was stupid. So I got spotted and ran away. I decided to tempt fate and try to call for a supply drop to change my camo to one better suited for urban combat, and the supply box landed in **THE MIDDLE OF THE DAMNED STREET.** I went out to get it, got spotted again, and the gunship tore me apart while I was changing.

I'm going to keep plugging away at this game though. I'm 30% of the way through, the story still doesn't make sense, and I've unlocked all my buddies. But I'm having fun running around the open world, infiltrating, killing, and recruiting. It's reasonably cathartic. I just wish the bad guys were getting some more characterization. I only know of three right now: Skullface, The Man on Fire, and the strange psychic boy. At least with the previous games, I got a briefing on some super-powered team of soldiers and everyone got some good characterization. I'm getting almost nothing here.
