---
title: West Marches
category: tabletop
---
Nosk is being retired... probably. After only a handful of sessions, our DM has decided to end our Dragon Queen campaign and consolidate all the players into a West Marches campaign. From what I've read, this is ideal for a large group with tons of scheduling conflicts. The West Marches structure is very reminiscent of GTA or the Witcher, where it's less about an overarching story and more about playing around in the setting and having the world react to what you do. Players always start and end sessions at their "home base" and there are easy narrative excuses for why characters can be left out of a session if the player can't make it.

So it's character creation time again!!

The setting is pirates on the high seas and the world is my oyster! But what to play? So far, my D&D career has consisted of a couple different fighters, a monk, and brief campaigns as a cleric and a rogue, and one session as a wizard. I'm a little annoyed that I haven't really had the chance to try out a spellcasting class to its fullest. The cleric campaign was only a couple sessions, the wizard was only one, and I was going to turn my rogue into an arcane trickster, but then we ended the campaign. I suppose I sort of got it when I was a monk, but Way of the Four Elements failed so often it didn't seem like a real experience. That was probably my best campaign, but probably because it's the only one that actually finished and gave closure. I suppose every class comes with some flavor of spellcasting. If it's not built into the base class, it's built into the archetype later.

Honestly, wizard seems **really** complicated. But maybe that's what I want. If I wanted to go with a class completely different from any other that I've played, the options are bard, druid, and ranger. Even saying that, I haven't really experienced a spellcaster at higher levels at all. With no input from other players on what classes they want to pick, I'm completely on my own and can't use the "party class gap" to guide my choice. I suppose it won't matter as much in this setting anyway, since we'll probably have different people every week.

So screw it! Let's play a wizard and **really** get the D&D experience.

So, a human male wizard. Who is he? What's his name? Why is he a pirate? Is he a cartographer looking to chart the world? Why turn to a life of crime? Has he fallen in with bad company willingly or unwillingly? Maybe he's been disowned by his wealthy family until he can make some absurd amount of money. A real Walter White sort of character. He tried more noble pursuits, but they weren't making money nearly fast enough, so he turned to a life of crime instead. The risk is higher, but the payout is so much more ludicrous. Simple, straight to the point. Money means everything and all I want to do is be accepted by those around me. I wish I could make them accept me for my own merits and skills, but all they care about is money, so that's all I am allowed to care about as well. Maybe I'll learn to con people while I'm out here. I hear the payout is pretty big there too. But no matter what, I'm going to willingly sacrifice anything to be accepted by my family.

So what's my name? I've been playing a lot of FFXIV lately. I could go back through that and see if I can find an obscure NPC to borrow the name of. Per usual, I feel like I can do better. The other games I've been playing lately are Brawl, Rocket League, Subnautica, and Stardew Valley. Brawl characters are all too popular, and there aren't any characters with good fantasy names in any of the others. Oh... that's a weird idea. I've been getting back into fishing in FFXIV. Some of the fish have pretty epic sounding names. Let's see what they can give me. Moldva, Jacques the Snipper, Coelacanthus, Bichir, Endoceras, Hannibal, Charon, Capelin, Opabinia, Glarramundi, Heliobatis, Axolotl, Kuno the Killer, Canavan, Vidofnir, Zalera, Bokuden, Xenacanthus, Nepto Dragon, (geez, there are a lot), Moksha. And that's just the interesting sounding ones I randomly looked at. Hmm... Kuno Canavan is starting to sound pretty good. Let's see how that sounds.

So, Kuno Canavan is a human wizard, early 20s. He was disowned by his noble family because he had reached adulthood and didn't have a penny to his name. He had elected to try and better himself instead of earning money like his parents and his two siblings. His parents made their fortune in contracting and owned the larges guild of carpenters and laborers in the city. They were responsible for building a large chunk of their neighborhood, as well as several other noble mansions. His older sister, Dolma Canavan, had made his fortune trading spices. His younger brother, Endo Canavan, had made his fortune running the smithy that supplied the city watch and standing army. None of his family had any actual skill in the trades that gave them their fortune. They were all just skilled deal-makers. Kuno had instead elected to work on himself and took up spellcasting and academics. He wanted to better himself and learn more about the world. His family thought him a failure and disapproved of him "squandering" his stipend on such a pursuit as "education." So they disowned him. Despite everything, Kuno loved his family. Heartbroken and without any resources other than his mind and his spellbook, he struck out to try and make his fortune. His attempts at plying his trade as a novice met with failure after failure. His attempts to learn a trade or broker any business deals without any money of his own similarly failed. Alone and distraught, Kuno was desperate for any way to make money. An enterprising group of pirates saw a clear mark and recruited Kuno as a patsy on their next heist. They had every intention of stringing Kuno along and leaving him for the law to find once they had fled with their loot. Due to some unforeseen circumstances, their plan went to crap and they were caught. As they were fleeing, Kuno's companions were cut down. Kuno unleashed his unused spells and accidentally murdered his pursuers. That left Kuno, alone, with the entire haul from the heist. Now with the first money Kuno had ever made in his life, and with no other options available, he started to see the merit in a life of piracy.

I like it! Let's do it!
