---
title: Useless Skills
category: tabletop
---
I just completed my first pass of removing abilities that will be useless at lower levels from my Weave playset. All told, I removed about 35 abilities and refilled 5 of them today. So I've got 30 abilities and flaws to fill in this month, then I will have hit my initial goal for NaNoWriMo. I'll still go through and do a second editing pass before the month is over.

It's hard coming up with useful abilities that I haven't put into the set already. I remembered I had a progress document that was supposed to aid me in finding duplicate abilities that I left to go out of date after I finished the very first draft of the set. I spent a good amount of time today filling that back in. Almost the entire time I was doing it, I kept thinking how much easier it might have been to automate it. I already have card parsing functions. I'd just need to write the titles to a CSV and I'd be basically done. If I have to do a major copy-paste job on this again, I'll think about automating it.

I **REALLY** hope that there's eventually some sort of import process for the playset creator, but I'm not going to expect much. As far as I know, everyone has been using different formats for all their sets. I'm the only one that's using the old markdown template, and that's just because most other filesharing stuff is blocked here. I'm continuing to wonder if there's an easier way to send character sheets around, but everything would involve copying everything I've written up to Google Drive or something. Maybe that'll be easier eventually... who am I kidding? The only way this becomes easier is when the playset creator comes out. Then I get to do the copy-pasting thing. Whee... At least I'll have reasonably easy access to my entire playset on my phone. It'll be painful, but I won't really have to write anything.

The one thing I'm afraid of is the possibility of another rules overhaul. They mentioned getting rid of the challenge cards, and then didn't stick around for any questions. That, of course, sent the community spiraling into theorizing what it could mean. Some of us took it to mean that challenge levels were going away completely. I tried a session last night without using challenge cards, and I didn't really like it. It felt like I was being really unfair to my players in some cases. No longer was there anything like an epic success, except when I handwaved it into existence.

I'm probably just bitter because I didn't think it was a very good session. I'm starting to wonder if I'm ever going to get back to the golden story that was my second or third session. Where I had 6 players and everyone had something to do. I wound up trying to send the players to the future to fight Dracula, but it got really late and there was no final fight. There wasn't even a murder. Maybe I should bring back the cold opens. Those really seemed to set the stage a lot better. Maybe it'll be enough for me to have those privately or something. Or maybe I should just keep trying with them. I might have dropped too much information in the first one. It'll probably be fine so long as I make sure not to drop any more clues than I have to into the opening. Besides, a cold open is sort of the staple of this sort of series.

I should probably also brush up on my knowledge of midwestern and southern America, so I have some slightly better settings to put my players in.
