---
title: What To Do
category: general
---
Bored again today. Count on ye olde blog to save the day!

I was reduced to browsing through the marketplace, looking at plugins for my work software for anything useful. Nothing really sprang out, so I started going through the menu on some of my most-used programs, looking for hidden features. Nothing there either. I'm so bored...

I started putting together wireframes for my Convention Planner website, so those are sort of coming along. I'm still getting bogged down trying to figure out how the entire thing will work in my head before putting anything down in wireframing tool, which completely defeats the purpose of the wireframing tool. It's supposed to be where you try out designs and don't worry about messing them up and having to do them over. Re-working a wireframe is LEAGUES easier than reworking an entire application workflow. So there's really no reason for me to be hesitating. I've already listed out all the functions it should have. Now I just have to arrange it properly.

I have a free day this weekend. Kid's going off to the grandparents and mom is out at the fair. I'm really struggling for something to do. I've apparently gotten really used to using my kid as an excuse to hang out with people that I've basically forgotten which of my friends don't have kids who can hang out with me on a normal Sunday. Who knows, I might take the sad route and spend the entire day playing games. I **really** don't want to do that. It'll feel like such a waste and a regression after all the changes my life has gone through in the past few months. I have a Weave game planned for Sunday at some point, so that'll be a nice way to break up the day. I really want to go out and do something though. I suppose I could try to invite some people over for a game night. That could be fun!

And I'm getting bogged down by doubt again. Who would possibly be interested in coming? I don't have a Switch. I have a very small set of board games (even though I'm pretty sure I have plenty and plenty of friends who'd want to bring their own). Actually, nah. If I'm going to be running my Weave game, I won't be able to host anyone unless it's in the early afternoon or something.

So with that, what am I going to spend my morning and afternoon of Sunday on? Final Fantasy? I'm going to keep coming back to that, maybe even settle on it.
