---
title: Moar Art!!
category: art
---
I was pretty prolific again this weekend. 4 new sketches over the weekend, including one that I submitted to Sketch a Day, which got 10 likes and a comment, surprisingly. It was just a box shaded to look like a spooky tunnel with a black figure at the end of it. I didn't think it worthy of anything, much less 10 likes. Maybe there is more to this sketch a day thing. I'm certainly going to make use of it when I'm out of inspiration during Inktober.

I sketched a couple more pokemon too. Larvitar and Houndour. They're a little more complicated than the ones I've done so far. Larvitar actually stretched me a little more than I thought. I'm learning that I have a hard time with long, subtle curves. I had the same issue with Charmander. I just couldn't get his back or his head right. I remember having this same issue drawing mouths back when I was trying to get into drawing manga. The littlest change in the curve completely changes the expression the character is.... expressing. My hand just wasn't steady enough to get what I wanted. I think I've gotten better, at least when I sit down and draw the curve over and over again.

I also drew my first ensemble drawing. The three nephews from the new Ducktales series. I'm really proud of these guys. I nailed their head shape, their clothes, and their expressions. They actually look like the cartoon. I've only come this close with my Pikachu and Bulbasaur drawings. Those actually look like I straight up traced them.

I really don't like my new sketchpad though. I suppose it's because it's made for "all" mediums. The paper is too different and doesn't hold pencil lead well. It's too... smooth? Maybe it takes the lead *too* well. I'm having a really hard time doing really light or really dark shading. The lighter shades in the Ducktales drawing look almost like paint. It also makes it a lot harder to erase and go back over the harder lines. The pencil makes a groove in the paper that the new line will tend to follow. At least.... I think there is.

My wife clued me in to a revelation last week. Since I seem to be really enjoying this new hobby, it apparently will mean that I'm easier to buy gifts for. All I have is a pencil and a sketchpad for my drawing, but there's a whole world of art I could get in to. Once Inktober publicizes my new hobby and how serious I am about it, I expect the people who pay attention to heave a sigh of relief when they figure out there's a whole bunch of stuff I can use that I don't already have. It sounds manipulative and narcissistic when I type it all out, but it was just a small revelation. I'm perfectly happy right now with just my limited supplies, but I won't say no to free stuff.
