---
title: GenCon 2019 Hype
category: tabletop
---
HYPE HYPE HYPE!!!!

I don't think I've been this hyped for a convention trip since my first or second Otakon. I'm going to GenCon this weekend!!

This will probably be the culmination of one of the more unused tracks of my interests. I was always mildly interested in Dungeons & Dragons, but I didn't grow up knowing anyone else who played. And in the age before the internet, finding like-minded friends was a big hassle. You either abandoned your interest, or convinced your existing friends to try it out with you. I, against my will, opted for the former. At least, until after college. I participated in my first campaign with my wife, before she was even my girlfriend. My first campaign was a bit of a disaster, mostly because I had no idea what I was doing. My second was a bit better, my third a bit better than that, and so on. I've gotten much better with creating my own portion of the story when the DM falls a little short with his/her prompts. I still had a hard time finding a group to play with, so I turned to podcasts. I found the few episodes of Penny Arcade playing. I spent a year or so listening to Critical Hit, put out by MajorSpoilers, which is usually focused on comics. That served as a good intro to 4E D&D, even though everyone I knew hated the system.

I went looking for other podcasts to listen to, and found the phenomenon that is Critical Role, probably the most popular D&D podcast in existence. It took most of the first arc for me to start to like the characters, but I'm poised to finish up the first campaign without slowing down. That's over 100 episodes, each between 2 and 4 hours long. I don't think I've consumed that much of a single piece of media since listening to the audiobook of the Dark Tower series... twice. There's so much material here. Of course, they had a couple live shows that were at something called GenCon, and that was the end of that.

Well... no, it wasn't. It was around that time, through the GeekAndSundry Twitch.TV channel, where Critical Role is broadcasted, that I discovered another game. You see, the day before Critical Role airs, another show airs in the same timeslot called Weave Society. Or at least, it was called that at the time. I've mentioned Weave a bunch of times previously on this blog, and frankly, the Critical Role stuff is kind of untouchable at GenCon. They're the sort of thing that, if you want to go to anything related to it, that's your entire convention. Waking up early to make sure you get tickets, waiting in an impossibly long line, crowding into uncomfortable seats, watching the event without leaving, then escaping and recovering for the rest of the day. For my first GenCon, I'd rather eat nails. So, I'm super hyped to direct my attention at a game that's lesser-known but much closer to my heart. I've actually interacted with people who work on Weave and there's the ever so **slightest** chance that they'll recognize me, at least by my Discord handle, and maybe by my playset. And maybe, just **maybe**, I'll get to play a few games with people.

But first, we have to get there. It's almost a 15 hour drive from here to Indianapolis, and we're going to do it all in one shot overnight. I'm traveling with a couple friends who are seasoned road warriors and I couldn't be more excited for the trip, to say nothing about the convention itself. Hopefully, I'll spend most of the trip sleeping, but I'm really looking forward to going to a convention to just be a geek again.

Speaking of being a geek, I got back into Final Fantasy XIV for the Shadowbringers expansion. I never thought I'd go back, but then my wife did, then I found out a bunch of my friends still play, then I read all the reviews saying that the Shadowbringers story is the best Final Fantasy story ever, and... I went back in. I had been thinking about FFXIV recently and how much I missed playing it. I even tried to find similar games that exhibited what I liked so much about it, but most of that was just MMO staples: the gear treadmill, the rotations, the mechanics, learning and executing patterns to maximize output, and I enjoyed the social aspect of things too. Although just logging in and doing roulettes every day gets boring no matter how involved the dungeons are. I'm going to take my sweet time and get involved in some of the other climbable trees, like chocobo racing, verminion, fishing, triple triad, blue mage, etc. And I'm going to actually try to learn how to be passable at every class as I get them all up to 80. I really want to learn ninja, astrologian, and paladin. I just know I'm not going to be raiding anytime soon, no matter how much the internet makes fun of "easy" content. I'm not here to stress out over this anymore. Not that I did very much in the beginning. I'm here to have fun climbing the gear tree and enjoying a good story.

I'm going through the story as a summoner this time around. I learned my lesson from Stormblood. Going through the story as a tank makes the post-story level grinding much harder because you have one fewer quick-queue classes to spend your queues on. If I use the story exp on my summoner, I don't have to wait through the long queue times later. Although, now that I think about it, I spent those long queue times leveling crafters/gatherers instead. And I missed them when I was leveling dark knight. Oh well, I'm not in a hurry. I'm gonna take my time knowing that the end of the road doesn't have savage content, just an end to this leg of the story. Kind of like how I'm playing Stardew Valley.
