---
title: Inking
category: art
---
I got a handful of new art supplies for my birthday. I got a new set of industrial mechanical pencils that I set to using almost immediately. The one I have is great, but it's all plastic and the little pocket clip that I use to keep it in the rings of my sketchpad broke. These new ones are metal and should hold up much better. The only issue I have is that they have the really tiny erasers. Thankfully, my other set of supplies includes, among many other things, the bigger erasers. It also includes pencils of varying hardness, a new larger sketchpad, and the subject of my post today, inking pens!! I've already tried them on a couple of drawings. I'm not sure yet what I think.

I have my basic process down pretty well at this point. I sketch out the rough outline in basic shapes, then I sketch in a more final outline, then I draw in a hard outline that will be basically "final", then I erase everything lightly which leaves only the hard outline, then I go over the hard outline again to fill in the little bits that were erased, and then I shade everything. It works pretty well, although drawing the hard outline basically three times seems to hurt the paper and makes the final version of the sketch look pretty rough. It also wastes a lot of eraser. Using ink means that I can skip the final outline. I'll do the sketch outline, do the "final" outline in slightly darker pencil, go over it with ink, then I can erase everything with only a little pressure. This saves my eraser a lot, but putting things down in ink means that any pencil shading will look weird. I say that... but I haven't tried it yet. Maybe it'll look fine.

My impressions of inking aren't bad. I'm having a hard time preventing it from bleeding. I'll put the pen down, and it'll just bleed into a little circle when I wanted to make an even line. That's probably on me not moving my hand correctly. I'll have to experiment with it more and give myself time to get it right. I'll also miss shading...

I'm definitely sure that it's about time I branched out into new mediums. Ink is the next logical step.
