---
title: Kiwi.js
category: game development
---
No, I'm not talking about the incredibly sad YouTube video about the kiwi bird that wanted to fly so badly it jumped off of a cliff.

I'm talking about [Kiwi.js](http://www.kiwijs.org/), my latest obsession in game development. Don't get me wrong, Love2D will probably remain my favorite engine for making serious games, but I felt I needed to know and actually like at least one HTML5/JS game development library. I've been using Phaser for the past few years to make simple games, but it's been a nightmare to use due to the documentation not actually matching the tutorials or normal coding practices.

Let me explain. In order to add a new Sprite object to the game, you call `this.game.add.sprite()`. That call is not actually documented anywhere in the API docs. If I go to look up the Sprite class, it comes with a full constructor and nothing mentioning the "proper" way to add a sprite to your game. KiwiJS, on the other hand, sticks with using object constructors and passes in the game or state object as a parameter. If I look up how to add a new sprite to my game in Kiwi, I find the constructor `Kiwi.GameObjects.Sprite()` and calling that will properly create the sprite game object. It also has a proper article explaining how you extend the game objects in order to encompass new values. If I wanted to extend a sprite object to give it a health value, I create the object type as a function and call `Kiwi.extend()`, which gives it all the properties of whatever it's extending.

I still don't like the fact that the library takes some control away from me. I'm not supposed to manually call the update functions on the objects. If I want an object to move, I could manually change the object's `transform.x` value, but I'm encouraged to instead add a physics component and set `physics.acceleration` or `physics.velocity` instead. I think I can work around that in most cases. I'm working through how I would have built my last Phaser game in Kiwi, and the only thing that Phaser would give me is the path following, but not only could I have probably built that myself, but Kiwi might actually have a tweening library that I could use instead.

From what I can tell, the lead developer behind Kiwi at some point just got fed up with everything that used to be wrong with it, took a weekend, and built his ideal game engine that "solved" all the issues in Kiwi. The result was Phaser 1. So that's kind of interesting. It explains the similarities in design patterns between the two of them. I'm definitely looking forward to using Kiwi for my next easter egg game.
