---
title: Journaling
category: rant
---
I had hoped to start the new year off better than this. I read an article recently about the benefits of keeping a journal. It apparently helps to compartmentalize feelings and label them, making it easier to identify their source and how to deal with them. I'm feeling the need to do that right now, so here goes.

I seem to be stressing for almost no reason this morning. The first potential cause that jumps to mind is an interaction with my wife recently. See, I programmed a new and improved calendar scheduler a while ago to assist in how they schedule judging times for their event participants. I completed this work a couple months ago. Now that applications are open, they're starting to use it. They immediately showered me with compliments about how pretty and convenient it is and how it's going to make their lives so much easier. I'm not sure why, but I fixated on the fact that everything they were saying was praising the end product. Nothing they said praised me. I didn't get any "Thank You"s or any show of gratitude for all the hard work I put in. Everything they said was about the end product. It should have made me happy, but all it did was make me feel left out... or left behind... I'm getting that feeling again. Like I just had an epiphany. I think I felt like how a kid would feel if he brought his Nintendo to a party and all his friends wanted to do was play with it and not with him. Of course, there's no way I would be able to play with the scheduler I built. I have no use for it like they do. But that didn't stop me from feeling like all they cared about was the product and not at all about the person. And that shouldn't have been the case. This is what was **supposed** to happen. I was supposed to build this thing, practically forget about it, then have people come in and shower it with compliments. I wasn't supposed to be involved after the release. If I was, it would have been to fix issues.

A lot of this was also apparently because of my fixation on specific words and phrases. I get really annoyed when my wife expresses sorry and regret over something she did, but she never actually says "sorry." I was getting really annoyed at all the appreciation and praise being sent my way, but no one saying "thank you." I'm definitely a "face value" kind of guy. It's probably really easy to lie to me.

Anyway, I definitely feel much better after writing this down and sitting on it for a few hours. This definitely helped me find the cause of my stress.