---
title: Can't Dev
category: game development
---
We just rearranged our work area a little, and I'm back to the point I was near the end of my last job. I can't do game dev on my work computer anymore because I'm worried about people seeing moving graphics on my computer and asking awkward questions about it. So the Game Off project has sort of stalled for now. I really want to squeak in a couple hours here and there to work on it, if only so I have something productive to do while I'm waiting for my Weave playset to get proofread. I have a play session scheduled for tomorrow night that I'm planning on using to playtest the set. Hopefully, it goes well.

I suppose I could always go back to the convention website. That has a few major features that have been requested that I could work on. At least I got that whole Electron thing out of my system. That was a nightmare. So many things designed for flat Node work that didn't like being forced into a psuedo-browser. I'm also kind of back to having no major issues in my life that I can build something to solve. I'm more concentrating on improving the non-technical aspects of my life, and I'm starting to reap the benefits of that. This project was supposed to pull me back into development, but I don't have as much me-time as I used to. I suppose I could give up a few mornings a week to work on this. That's about the only unallocated time I have nowadays, and I spend it working out, surfing YouTube, and playing Rocket League. I reached a point about a year ago where I decided to be more productive in my mornings, so I picked up those online finance and drawing courses, then I ran out of things I wanted to draw. Maybe I could get back into that too. Just sketch in the mornings. That sounds kind of nice and a good way to warm up my brain. I'll think about that after this month is over. For now, I'll devote at least a couple mornings a week to working on my Game Off project. It'll be nice to actually make some tangible progress on it again.