---
title: Depression
category: rant
---
I've been starting to wonder lately if I actually have depression. I've been seeing a lot of (re)posts from people reaching out and expressing their experiences as short comics. Some of them resonate with me, and the common theme seems to be "they didn't know that these sorts of thoughts are not supposed to be normal." It makes me wonder just how many of my "normal" thoughts aren't actually normal. For instance, at least once every day, I catch myself muttering "I hate the world" or "I hate my life" or some other grand generalization. The thought is very quick and passes almost immediately. But now I'm starting to wonder if that's too much. If I'm suffering from something that's causing me to think this way. Occasionally, I'll try to grab onto this thought and see if I can find a reason for it. I'll essentially go through my life situation and see if there's anything that could cause me to feel this way. I usually come up with empty. My life is actually pretty good. I have a good family, a stable job that I enjoy, and interesting hobbies that keep me occupied.

There are some bad parts of my life though. My house is slowly crumbling from under my feet. What should have been a lifetime investment is now just a black money sinking hole. I don't have any good friends really. I realized that the handful of people who might consider themselves my close friends, I don't actually know them very well. I've run into a couple situations where I assumed something bad about a person, maybe the way I thought they'd react to something I wanted to say, and the reaction I get when I express this fear is "There's no way I'd ever do that to you." I just never know anymore.

Probably the biggest sign to me that I might have depression is an emotional breakdown I had a couple weeks ago. I've never had one of those before. I came to the realization that if I put forth no effort into being social, I'd only ever see 4 people outside of work: my wife, my son, my mother, and my father. I didn't have any friends with the initiative or the relationship to initiate any social interactions with me. People say that friendship is a two-way street, but it feels more like a black hole to me. I'll put effort in, and never get any effort in return. I made a post about this, and I've gotten a couple people to come out of the woodworks and try to start things up. I don't think that'll last though. We'll see. Maybe that's the kickstart I need to make my life a little better.

The other thing that's got me worried is that I recently discovered that it's possible for me to be extremely stressed out about something that I don't remember. Recently, I started up an online course on drawing. I went to start the first lesson and realized that I didn't have any pencils in my desk. I had a brief thought that my wife had borrowed them and never given them back, but I dismissed that thought. I couldn't think up any other reason for why they might be missing though. I went shopping a bought a couple more. When I told my wife what I had bought and that I didn't know where my pencils went, she immediately apologized, disappeared into the garage, and came back with my missing pencils. I immediately felt a great weight leave my mind that I didn't know was there. Apparently, I was incredibly bothered by the possibility that my wife had taken my pencils and never given them back to me. The tricky part is that the idea of my wife having my pencils hadn't entered my conscious thought since that morning. How is it possible for someone to be stressed and not be able to think of the reason? Sometimes I'll get angry for absolutely no reason too. Well, that's not true. I'll get angry because I'll imagine how a conversation is going to play out, and I'll wind up thinking through the worst case scenario, where the person I'm talking to is a complete asshole who is actively trying to make my life difficult. It shouldn't be normal for someone to think this way.