---
title: Not so Spooky
category: game development
---
I gotta say, I'm not at all happy with how the ghost scenario turned out. I cut some things from my initial design because I didn't think they made sense, but what I have now just isn't scary at all.

The ghost can sense where you are if your flashlight is on and you're in its rather large detection area. It can also sense if you move and are in its smaller detection area. If you do neither, then the ghost will go right through you. This leads to a lot of tedium once you figure it out. You just have to turn off your light and stop moving and the ghost loses all threat to you. You win by getting the book and reading it for 45 seconds. While you're reading the book, the ghost can sense where you are, no matter how far away you are. So you get the book, and you start reading it. Then you stop when you hear the ghost, sit still for a long time until the ghost wanders away, then start reading again. It gets real boring real quick.

I tossed around some other ideas to make it more suspenseful. I could bring back the teleporting idea and make it so that the ghost slowly fades into view in whatever room the player is currently in. And then give the ghost a limited range of movement before it disappears. Or maybe it fades into existence and you have to shine the flashlight at it to get it to go away. In either case, avoiding the threat becomes an active action instead of a passive action. In most stealth games, dealing with a threat comes in three flavors: avoid, attack, or run. Avoid detection if possible. If detected, fight if possible, run and hide if fighting is not possible. The "hide" part is the most boring. Metal Gear Solid 2 was particularly bad at this, with you having to wait up to 3 minutes before the enemy would lose interest and resume normal patrolling routes so you could resume your stealthing. So now the action becomes either "run away fast before the ghost gets you" or "turn your flashlight on the ghost before it catches up to you."

All of the above is great, but none of it touches the available items and win conditions, which may be the most boring part of this scenario. You just get the book and read it. I've done a good job so far of making the scenario solutions not feel tedious, but I've failed with this scenario. I had originally meant for the book to only be effective in the room in the attic, but I didn't have a good way to express that to the player. That can be remedied by the help text that I'm going to add later, but I still don't like the mechanics of it. One suggestion I got was to have the player obtain ritual supplies and have to complete the ritual while staying in a specific location. That might be able to play with the ghost being limited to the room you're in, spawning with increased frequency if you stay in one room for too long. People keep suggesting a salt-circle, but I feel like that would just be overpowered unless the ghost could gradually dispel it with repeated assaults. Or maybe the wind will pick up and randomly blow the salt away. I honestly don't know how I can change this scenario's solution to make it more interesting. Betrayal at the House on the Hill has these ghostly scenarios:

* Find and bury the bones while the ghost is still unsummoned, or destroy the ghost if it is summoned
* Find and use the correct item in one of the correct rooms to banish the banshee
* Find and use the correct item in one of the correct rooms to banish the specters
* Locate the pieces of the multi-stage ritual and complete them in sequence to banish the evil shadows

The bones one is kind of interesting. I could go the Supernatural route and require you to dig up the bones of the ghost. That would require you to spend a lot of time in a variety of rooms while digging. So the new items are a shovel, salt, gasoline, and a lighter. I could skip on the salt if that's too much.