---
title: New Year
category: general
---
Time to ring in the new year! Hopefully 2018 is better than 2017 was...

I have a few big plans and changes planned for 2018. The two biggest are give up soda and finish development on Bump in the Night. Even if I don't finish this year, I want to be well on my way to finish it in the first half of 2019. I'm already well on my way to giving up soda completely. I've been weaning myself off of it, only permitting myself to have one cup on certain days of the week. For this month and next month, my goal is to eliminate all the "sneaking" I've been doing. I'm only going to allow myself one soda on Tuesdays, one soda on Fridays, and one soda on special occasions. I've been doing a lot of sneaking over vacation and on weekends. This is probably mostly due to me not setting down rules for myself outside of workdays. I thought I only had to worry about workdays since that was where my biggest tempation was, but I still found myself buying a soda at the movies or getting a fridge pack to keep next to my desk at home "just in case." This year, I'm putting a stop to that. No more soda at home.

I'm falling into a trap regarding Bump in the Night development. The next planned feature is implementing the "use shotgun" action, which spawns a bullet object that can kill monsters if the conditions are right. I'm getting stuck thinking about it too much. I don't know whether it'd be easier to use a particle effect or an animated sprite. I don't know whether to put it in as an AABB or try to make my cone collission thing better. I need to just pick one and get it out of the way. It's the last feature I need before the player can satisfy the win condition. Then I just need to add a lose condition and I'll finally have a completed prototype that I can float around and see if this concept is fun or not. There are a few little features I need to add. Mostly it's just glowing eyes on the monsters, a few placeholder screens to get the player through the flow and remember what they're playing, and the new lighting engine so that the game is actually scary.

Damn...the other lighting library doesn't fix the bug that I was getting. The bodies that cast shadows are still lit up when they are in the shadow of another body. I guess this is going to be something I have to live with for a while, until I sit down and learn enough about shaders to build my own. I did just try it out again and it's not *that* bad. I just have to balance it more in the player's favor. Tweak the monsters so that there are certain places they won't go unless chasing the player. This will give the player better hiding spots to use and give the monsters more predictable patrol routes. I can do all kinds of things to tweak the monster AI once I get to the alpha playtesting stage. The funny part is that I'm going to have to throw nearly all of it out and start over once I start working on one of the more interesting scenarios where the monster can go through walls and teleport and stuff. Fun things!

While I was stuck thinking about the bullets today, I drifted to a different feature and downloaded a few other tilesets to spruce up the house a little bit. I completely replaced the floor in the attic and basement of the house and added a few little doodads to decorate some of the rooms. It actually doesn't look half-bad for bad placeholder art.