---
title: New Resolutions
category: general
---
It's a little late in the year for new resolutions, but I'm promising a couple right now. This probably has something to do with the fact that I maxed out my crafters in FFXIV the other day, so I now have far less motivation to keep playing.

First, I'm going to start making use of the off-brand BowFlex machine we got second hand from a neighbor who was moving to another town. I'm going to follow the "general" workout routine and do it every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings. I even put the routine here on the site with space where I can write the weight I'm using for that particular exercise. I realized after attempting some of them that our machine is missing pieces. The Lat Pulldown exercise calls for a bar that we don't have, and the Leg Push exercise calls for a belt attachment. I can do the pulldown exercise without the bar, but the leg exercise is a little harder. Now, instead of being limited by my leg strength to push off of, I'm limited by my arm strength to hold the cables in place. My arms are a LOT weaker than my legs. I'll have to substitute lunges or something in for that exercise.

Second, I'm going to make Tuesday and Thursday my "productive mornings" and do at least one productive thing each morning. For now, that means slogging through this Investing 201 course I'm doing through my library. It's really just a series of articles without any feedback from an instructor of any kind, followed by a quick multiple choice quiz. I'm really not liking this site. It has a wealth of material, but no interaction. I suppose I'm expecting too much out of something I get for free just because I went and got a library card. The funniest part is that I've badmouthed the courses twice now and gotten no reaction. After I'm done with this course, I have a few options for what to pursue next. I can pick up the piano again or I can move on to one of the "how to draw" courses I've found. I suppose I could also just devote that time to Bump in the Night, but I think I'd prefer not to have to make too many decisions on my own in the morning. It wears me out too much in the afternoon and evenings.