---
title: Money for Nothing
category: general
---
And chicks for free. Every so often this song will get stuck in my head. I was obsessed with it when I was younger and didn't know what the lyrics meant. It was on an old VHS tape we had that talked about computer animation circa 1985. I watched this tape and its companion tape a lot. I completely forget their names and I want to watch them again now...

My motivation to work on the convention website has tanked kind of. I'm at the stage where I'm waiting on responses from other staffers in order to continue working on the big features I have planned. it sucks because I apparently don't want to get embroiled in another project just to have to interrupt myself to work on this again. I should probably just bite the bullet and work on one of my games again. I'm waiting on a response from programming for the event scheduler, but I suppose I could get the prototype working. And I'm waiting on responses from executive staff for work on the centralized account system, and that's going to take a long time to get responses for.

So I should at least finish up the Alien Scenario in Bump in the Night, and then brush up on my Phaser to get ready for the easter egg game for the convention website. I already have a cool plan in mind for the game, but there are a lot of bits that I'm not sure how to accomplish yet in Phaser. I might take some future game jam weekends to work on little pieces of it until I have enough to construct the full game.

Other than that, work sucks as usual. We're dealing with a new manager who doesn't know a lot about writing requirements. As usual again, I'm blaming myself for not reading through the requirements to make sure all the questions are answered, and now we're having to scramble with actually getting the requirements right. I found a funny gif this morning that compares the amount of time it takes one person to complete a project to the amount of time it takes a team to create a project. The one person was: design the product, build the product, test the product, release the product. The team was: assemble the team, write the user stories, argue about the user stories, build the product, argue that the requirement were missed, rage quit, drink into oblivion, buy a bar, realize you have no idea how to manage a bar, beg for your job back, etc. etc. etc. It was funny and depressing.

I've made decent headway with my No-CI project. It builds and runs from inside Atom and after struggling a little, I figured out a bad way to store data in one place so all my routed Angular Components have access to it. I found one of the major pitfalls of working with Angular. It really is designed to be a web app engine. Many of the more desktop-y node scripts don't play well with typescript. I actually had to make an edit to the gitlog node_module in order for it to play nice with Angular5. Almost makes me wish I had just gone with Vue. I also couldn't do good error handling. Gitlog used the old method of requiring a callback function to be passed in, which means that my `this` variable did weird things, and I couldn't make any errors I encountered bubble up to the main components. There's probably a way to accomplish this more cleanly, but screw it. This is my little utility app and it's going to be as dirty as I want it. I'm now able to point the app at a local git repo and have it list commits. Next is making it so selecting those commits populates a selectable list of files. Then I'll have to deal with making the FTP interactor work properly, which is sure to take a really long time, and finally, upload the files to the interwebz. A nice-to-have will be to save FTP config settings so I can get back in quickly.

I have to say, this blog is getting decently big. When built, it's about 25MB. I think most of that is the post content copied around. My single biggest file is the 6MB gif animation for Eating Machine. Other than pages that include that, most page views require ~100KB of data. On the home page, the biggest thing request is jQuery at 30KB. Load time for individual pages is routinely ~100ms, which is to be expected since this is a static site. I could probably shrink that even more by using a CDN version of bootstrap and jQuery. Those numbers are all with cache-less downloads of everything. Not bad for my own little corner of the web.

I'm also really liking Markdown. I recently convered a lot of the convention website static content to use it so that we could more easily read and update it. We'll see how that turns out this year as more content comes in. Now that I know what Markdown is, I'm seeing it everywhere. My new work project portal manages its wikis using Markdown. I'm getting a lot of information from git READMEs. I actually tried to convince my wife to use GitHub to write her books once. But she's completely used to using MS Word, which definitely wouldn't play well with any kind of source control. If I had any ideas or was any good at writing, I'd totally use this to write a book. Then, it'd be dead simple to put portions of it on the web, or convert it to anything I wanted. Plain text is just so versatile. Not to mention that Markdown would be easy to run through an ebook creator. Eh, maybe someday.