---
title: Memories
category: general
---
I wrote a tiny post about this in one of my other social media profiles, and I just kept thinking about it. Enough that I wanted to write down my thoughts.

I watched the first movie out of the new Fate/Stay Night: Heaven's Feel trilogy the other night. It's been a really long time coming. The Fate series and Type Moon universe have been a huge part of my life since college. I was first introduced to Tsukihime when I joined the school anime club and we watched the rather terrible anime. I loved the opening but was confused by the story. When I asked the president of the club about it, he ranted and raved about how deep the universe went. And through a small amount of coaching, I picked up and read through my first visual novel. The president set me up with a small auto-translator that helped me along just enough to understand things. It was the perfect tool for someone who wanted to learn Japanese anyway. But through my growing love for this universe, I found one of my best friends.

From there, we waited for the fan translation for Fate/Stay Night to arrive. The novel didn't work well with the auto-translator, so I had to use a Japanese dictionary and the series wiki to understand things. Even so, I became part of a very small but very rabid fanbase for this universe. We scoured the web for any information about character histories, one-off stories, interviews, and any other clues we could find to learn more about how the Type Moon universe was put together. There was just so much to it, and more was being added all the time by the author himself and by fans. The sheer number of really polished fan games was staggering. Melty Blood remains to-date, one of the most polished fighting games I've ever played.

So Fate/Stay Night is a visual novel with three main story paths, each one centering around one of the three heroins. This is to be expected, since it is still technically an eroge complete with multiple sex scenes. **BUT**, I can honestly say that even though I was a hormonal young man, I read the novel for the story. The first route, *FATE*, was pretty vanilla. Boy is saved by girl, boy falls for girl, boy and girl save the world. It serves as a decent introduction to the world and nothing super unexpected happens. Only a couple rules of the game get broken and it serves as a good introduction to the other characters without giving too many of them a huge stake in the story. The second route, *Unlimited Blade Works*, focuses on a different set of villains. Based on a snap-decision by Shirou, the main character, in the *FATE* route, a character who might have become a villain was gravely injured on the first day of the war. In the *Unlimited Blade Works* route, Shirou makes the reverse decision, and a new villain is introduced, completely changing the rest of the story and revealing a ton of new information about Shirou. The third and final route, *Heaven's Feel*, is the route that's currently getting the movie treatment. Again, small decisions mean everything. Shirou decides twice to walk the third heroin home from school. Thus, he develops just enough feelings for her that he notices when she comes to his house with bruises from her abusive brother. He invites her to stay at her place for a few days, and, without the suppressive wardings present at her own house, her dark and budding powers manifest and wreak havoc on the war and all the characters. *Heaven's Feel* is a completely different story. All but two of the summoned magical characters are dead by day 3 and the world now has to contend with a completely new set of rules for the war.

And all that is just the base series. There have been many spinoffs and fan-creations. The thing that makes this series so appealing to me is that, despite it's fanciful exaggeration of the summoned characters, they are still grounded in the history they are pulled from. The basic premise of Fate/Stay Night is that there is a battle royale every so often for the Holy Grail. Seven mages summon seven servants to fight for them. When one servant is left, the Holy Grail appears and grants the mage one wish. The servants are well-known historical or mythological characters, summoned to our world, stuck into an archetype, and given magical powers based on what was famous about them during their lives. There are hundreds of these characters. Arthur Pendragon, Hercules, Joan of Arc, Medea, Alexander the Great, Gilgamesh, Vlad the Impaler, Gilles de'Rais, Medusa, and some really weird and cool ones, like Jack the Ripper, David (of David and Golliath), and the Black Death. Each one of these possesses several abilities and items that they were famous for when they were alive, re-imagined in this magical setting. Lancelot was famous for being able to use a stick to beat a knight with a broadsword, so anything he touches is infused with his magical energy and becomes a weapon capable of standing up to the other characters. This is especially cool when he takes control of a fighter jet. Hercules was famous for conquering the Twelve Trials, proving that he can survive some incredible situations, so now he effectively has twelve "lives" and has to be killed multiple times in order to truly die. The list goes on and on.

Fate/Zero was one of the first anime series my wife and I watched together. It also spawned one of our first pair cosplays and to-date my most impressive cosplay. It also served as one of the many things driving the two of us during our trip to Japan. I really wanted to complete my collection of the original novels and had to scour the doujinshi book stores to find the original prints. But I succeeded!! Even though I've long since lost the ability to read them, I still keep their translations handy as text files in case I'm ever bored and want a quick read.

So, the second *Heaven's Feel* movie is supposed to come out this year in Japan. I really hope they don't run out of motivation or money before they complete the trilogy. You never know with a series like this.