---
title: Weave
category: tabletop
---
I have to rave about this new physical game I discovered and bought. It's full title is [Weave: Storytelling Redefined](https://weave.game/) and I've become that guy who won't stop trying to get everyone I know to play it.

It's marketed as a "collaborative storytelling game" where players and a storyteller use a deck of stylized Tarot cards, some specialized dice, and a mobile app to tell a story together. I've been describing it as Dungeons & Dragons with 90% of the rules and math stripped out, or a physical version of various "movie-like" video games such as Until Dawn, Heavy Rain, The Wolf Among Us, Detroit: Become Human, and The Walking Dead.

Setup is really light and quick. The players chose a playset or "world" to play in, the storyteller scans three cards into the mobile app to form the basis of the story, players scan more cards to give them choices for their character backstories, talents, flaws, and items, and then the storytelling begins. Along the way, if the storyteller gets stuck or needs some inspiration, they can chose to scan a card to add a new story element, such as a location, an enemy, a plot twist, or a non-player character. If a player tries to do something that the storyteller wants to add a random success/fail element to, the storyteller can ask the player for a challenge roll. The player can look through their character's profile to see if there's anything in there that would improve their odds of success. The player then rolls an appropriate number of dice to attempt the challenge and the storyteller decides the consequences.

The game fits really well into short form one-shot sessions, short form multi-session "seasons," and long form multi-session campaigns. It's pretty incredible. There are currently 5 playsets/worlds available in the base game:
- Xorte - A cyberpunk dystopian setting with nanomachines, cybernetic enhancements, and mutants everywhere
- Solar Age - A spacefaring adventure through the solar system where every planet has been colonized and has a unique culture
- Gloomies - A "kids on bikes" adventure in a small town with very little parental supervision and a whole lot of strange happenings
- Clique - A high school drama/comedy setting
- Goblins R Jerks - A medieval fantasy setting that starts the players at the bottom of the food chain as a junk-hoarding gang of goblins

I've done at least one short form storytelling session in Xorte, Solar Age, and Gloomies, and I've played one session of a bigger campaign in Solar Age. I've watched all of the Let's Play videos that are up on YouTube. I'm rabidly following the Discord channel. I'm trying to subscribe to the Weave Society Twitch stream, but it's on very late in my timezone, so I have to depend on what gets uploaded to YouTube or reruns. Even so, I'm loving every minute I spend on this game. Any critique I have is due to my own lack of improvisational skills, which I'm hoping this game will help me improve. I tried out for the drama department's improv troupe in high school and failed miserably. I just couldn't come up with a concept that would last me through a session. I could come up with one-liners decently well, but not rapidly enough to keep a scene going.

I suppose my one critique is that the randomized nature of the game makes it difficult to keep the story threads exposed to the players to a minimum. During the Gloomies session I ran, the players thought my contrived reason for them to be at the starting location was the main plot thread, when it was actually the unexpected creature they found there. Due to a scanned location card, they wound up in a haunted house later that had ghosts, but wasn't at all relevant to where I wanted the story to go. It was a pretty wacky adventure that came out alright in the end, but didn't really have a resolution. My Solar Age session and my Xorte session were a lot better. They at least had a decent beginning, middle, and end. I just thought of another critique. In each instance, when the players started confronting the "boss" of the story, I had an increasingly difficult time scanning in story elements that I could make relevant. As the situations get more defined, it's harder to add random elements to things. The Xorte session ended with the players in the sewers, and I scanned in a plot twist that gave me the choice of having a sudden panicked riot, or something equally unlikely to happen in the narrow sewer corridor the players were navigating.

One of the coolest planned features for this is the Playset Creator. The game creator has put the playset template up on [GitHub](https://github.com/monoclesociety/weave-md-playset). This will allow anyone to write their own playsets and import them into the game to share with friends. I had the bright idea to try and put together a Cosmere or Way of Kings playset. That could be really fun with the right people. Plus, it would essentially give me the experience of writing a book on GitHub that I complained about wanting to do before. Creating a playset is a lot of work though. There are 22 cards, each one has a full character for the boss, 3 backstories, 4 talents, 4 flaws, a signature move, 2 items, 2 NPCs, 2 locations, 2 enemies, 2 plot twists, and a theme. That's...23 story elements per card which makes....506 story elements total not counting the boss in each card, which is it's own set of backstories, talents, flaws, items, and signature move. All told, that's over 700 unique story elements that can't repeat to make a complete playset. The hardest part would be making sure they don't overlap. It wouldn't make sense in a fantasy setting for a player to get one card that says they're an elf and another that says they're a dwarf. Although I suppose that could work if instead of saying "you are an elf" it said "you have spent extended time with elves." That would leave it up to the player whether they were born and raised an elf, or just lived among them for a while. Man, I really want to try writing this now.

I'm very likely going to be running another pickup session on Sunday, and the long-form campaign I'm playing in might meet next Friday.