---
title: Socially Improving
category: general
---
My last post was entirely correct. I had a really bad week and forgot about it, but it was still stressing me out.

But yeah, last week was much better. We had a really fun D&D session on Monday, I had volleyball on Tuesday, we watched new Doctor Who and Supernatural on Wednesday and Thursday, and I took it easy on Friday and Saturday. I was supposed to take my kid to a friend's house for a toddler play date, but the other kid woke up really sick and didn't want to get anyone else sick. So that was a bummer. This past Monday we went out on a date, Tuesday I played a double-header and got taken care of by my wife, and tomorrow will be our day in to catch up on TV. I'm in the middle of it now. I'm really starting to reap the benefits of being more social. And I still have time to devote to family and other important things. I wound up dropping out of the Thursday night volleyball league, mostly because my wife and I decided that we were going to try to keep Thursday night just for us. It's typically a night when neither of us are doing anything in the evening, so we can just spend time together as a family. It's probably not going to stay Thursday, but I think it's a good idea for us to try to keep one night a week where we either do nothing or do something together.

I had an interesting thought the other day. Maybe I'm not really an introvert after all. The meaning of extrovert/introvert has either been changing or just becoming better defined as a person who either gains energy from being around other people or gains energy from being alone. It has nothing to do with how outgoing or shy a person is. You can totally be a shy extrovert. You'll just be tired most of the time if your shyness keeps you away from other people. I've been really energized and excited the past few days, much more so than I have been the past few years. I did hit a major slump last night and this morning, but that's more likely because I played a double-header last night and then didn't dry off right away after my shower and got chilled. Tonight and tomorrow will hopefully be much better as I catch up on sleep. Although there's a good chance I'll be Weaving Friday night, so there goes my sleep for that night. I'm going to try to make sure I only Weave online one night a week.

Oh yay! The 2018 Github Game Off jam is starting up soon! Here's my chance to get motivated to learn LÖVE 11, and maybe finally convert Bump in the Night over to it. It's been on hold since July, which I suppose isn't really that bad. But I've badly needed a kick in the pants to get back to work on it again. Using the jam to warm back up to game dev might just be the ticket I need to do this. Although it'll mean taking a break from writing my Weave playset, I think I could use one. I'm...wow...98% done with it. I just have to fill in the backstories for 23 more bosses and I'll be done with the first draft. The only piece I'm not really happy with are the Locations. I wanted this to be a playset that could be set in any town/village/city in modern America. So all the locations are generic places like cafe, hotel, office building, hospital, cave, forest, etc. I might go back and try to set this in a single major city that could have all of these things, like Chicago or something.

Anyway, yay game jams!! I definitely had a lot of fun making my game last year. It was the first game I made using the Heaven Varient soundtrack (finally). The music really made the game that time. And now I've gotten even better after working on Bump in the Night for so long and learned quite a bit from the latest iteration of Abby's Adventures. I actually have a ready-made pathfinding script that I can adapt for other things now. It's going to be so much fun!