---
title: Doing Better
category: tabletop
---
Man, that last entry was a real bad one, wasn't it?

I'm doing much better now that some of my social plans are starting to pay off. I went out with some people from work who had organized a My Hero Academia movie viewing, met a nice girl from the graphics department, and had a lot of fun. It only took about 20 minutes of dinner conversation for the topic to shift from the movie and the anime we were all there for to "Oh my gawd. Did you hear that Jennie got fired for drug use?" I mentally checked out of that conversation real quick. So it was haphazardly organized, but still fun.

This past weekend, I finished up the story I was telling in Weave with the group. I was really depressed after having to cut the previous session short. But everyone had enough fun that the senior moderator who was playing asked if we'd be interested in making Saturday Night Weave a semi-regular thing. I expressed some apprehension, since we're having enough trouble getting our other group together for a different long-running campaign. But I plan on posting in the looking-for-group chat fairly often, looking for Saturday night games. It's a good night for me and the lack of obligation means I can skip if I like. I'm sort of making a name for myself as one of the few willing storytellers in the discord chat. Of course, I have zero visibility into how many people play in offline games, but it feels good man.

I also recently witnessed one of the other community members get promoted from "community peon" to "author" when her playset got published and featured on the Weave Society Twitch channel. One of these days I'll borrow a prime account and actually watch a full episode of that show. It's just on so late for me.

Volleyball starts up again for me tomorrow. I played last week on Monday, but I got sick later in the week, so it feels like last week was a lot longer than it actually was. I found a video online that examined what makes sports anime appealing, despite trying to appeal to two disparate groups of people: anime fans who hate jocks, and jocks who hate nerds. As a member of both, I really like most sports anime. What really hit home for me was that the last 5 minutes of the video talked about the hidden purpose of sports anime: to get people into the sport. It's no joke. The video narrator and I both learned a whole LOT about a given sport by watching an anime about it. I had no idea how someone moved up on boxing ranks or how figure skating tournament ranks worked before I watched Hajime no Ippo and Yuri on Ice. And I've learned a ton about volleyball from watching Haikyuu!! Since a lot of the more interesting techniques and special moves require a lot of teamwork, I will probably never actually experience them. But I've learned how to do a back attack, some tips about how to block properly, and I'm learning how to do a proper flying fall so I don't hurt my neck like I almost did last week. Not to mention that volleyball is the first sport where I'm actually willingly practicing outside of games. It's not much. I only have a ball, which means I can only do setting drills and the occasional receiving drills by myself. But it's something. I actually lightly injured my elbows due to how much setting practice I was doing.

Man, I love markdown. It continues to make me wish I had an idea for a book that I could write.

I'm going to a wedding this weekend, which should be fun. We're going to channel the start of October and get done up in a vaguely horror-esque or gothic way. It's the wedding party's fault for saying we could wear whatever we wanted. The next day, I'm taking my entire family to the Renn Faire to celebrate an old coworker's anniversary. I haven't seen or talked to them since I quit, but I always thought I would be good friends with them. I ran into them at a renn faire previously, and they were all dressed up. That usually indicates that we'll make good friends.

Fun fact. Including the archived posts from my previous blog, this is the 236th post I've made. Considering the oldest post on here is from 2011, that's... just over 20 posts per year.