---
title: Slow Afternoons
category: general
---
Here to subject the world to more of my bored ramblings. I'm slowing down on development for Bump in the Night. I had to go back and rebuild one of the scenarios from scratch. It really wasn't that bad. I had the updated scenario done in a matter of minutes and then I stalled when it came time to work with the art and sound again. I wound up drawing my own gravestone and corpse, so they look kinda terrible. Hopefully, they get across everything that I want to get across. After this, it's the Alien, Zombie, and Elder God scenarios. Then...I'm not sure actually. I suppose it's on to adding the little things that I've been getting feedback for: scenario intro, help text, save games, and fixing the issue with the lighting engine. That's really the great part about having a task board. I actually have everything listed out that will bring me to a completed game. I'm not going to get lost anywhere along the way.

The big convention date is coming up in a couple weeks. When that's over, I'll be ready to start in on whatever big summer enhancement project I want to make to the site. My current big asks are integration with the Google Email API and converting the text-heavy content to Markdown. I just hope doing this doesn't impact the performance that much. The other thing I want to do is some form of CI. Something that will make pushing changes to the prod site easier. The issue there is that I don't think I can trust my staff to be as diligent about branching and committing as I will be. I suppose I could implement a PR process. That's been working out really well at work. But it would probably slow everything down too much for all those stupid content requests. But frankly, anything that would speed up deployment while still allowing us to push things piecemeal through FTP would be ideal. Maybe I can hook up "git diff" to some kind of FTP script generator so that it would push the files that git has picked up as differences. That would be really cool. Added as a task.

Other than that, I'm kind of generally unhappy with some parts of my life. I love my family. I like the people I work with and my job. My biggest issue is that I don't hang out with anyone who is passionate about the same things I'm passionate about. I don't know any programmers outside of work and I don't know how to interact with them well enough to make friends outside of work. Maybe it's worse because programming doesn't attract social people. It attracts know-it-alls instead. People who are eager to "help," but often come across as arrogant and close-minded. Come to think of it, I haven't interacted with any other programmers AS programmers since 2013. I don't like the group that I'm playing volleyball with. You know...I think my biggest obstacle to a social life is that I feel like I should be satisfied with work, and I feel guilty whenever I go out at night and make my wife stay home with the baby for the entire day. It helps to remind myself that it'll only be for 3 more years. Then he'll be in school and my wife can get her days back and I won't feel guilty about leaving her alone after work.

I've been trying to find a new iPhone game to play. I wanted to find something with a tech tree and a story. Like Subnautica or XCOM. I'm giving Fallout Shelter another try and I'm not doing so well. My inhabitants are starving and I don't have any medical supplies. I actually don't know what a game over looks like in this game. What happens after all my vault dwellers die? I suppose I'll find out in the next couple days. Maybe it's coming back around. I was so focused on getting caps and stuff from the wasteland that I stopped producing food and water.