---
title: Hive Weather Remastered
category: web development
---
I've been mulling over one of my websites that I don't think ever reached its full potential. [Hive Weather](https://joedono.github.io/Hive-Weather/) was supposed to be how I got familiar with CSS animations, but I looked up some sample weather icons and could not wrap my head around how they were done. A simple cloud involved adding a rounded-corner CSS rule to an :after tag? What kind of messed up crap is that? So I scrapped the idea, included the basic weather patterns using some animations I pulled from bleech.io, and called it a day. Then I went back and tried rebuilding it in Angular 5, but I got completely stumped when I asked what I actually wanted the site to do. It didn't seem like enough to just have the location search bar, but I couldn't think of anything snazzier to have it do. I looked at other weather reporting websites, and they have all these links to news stories about the weather. They're almost entirely news... Maybe it wasn't the content that worried me. It was the sheer number of possible weather conditions that I would have to come up with effects for. I still want to use it to learn Angular 5. I still have my dev API keep for Wunderground.com. It's the only really interesting thing I have access to. Maybe I'm only adverse to picking this up again because building a website from scratch seems so daunting to me for some reason.

I've fallen into the trap again, haven't I? I'm stuck trying to come up with the perfect design for this site that I'm not actually designing or working on anything. I built this site from scratch and it's turned out great. I spent a little time trying to convert it to Bootstrap 4, but the fact that I would have to implement my own glyph-icons styling put me off of that idea.

Hive Weather remains my least-liked website so far, surpassed only by my original littlehivestudios.com, which I don't think I have the code for anymore. That was back when I knew absolutely nothing about website design.