---
title: What Does the Bear Say
category: game development
---
I'm  honestly astonished with how much progress I've made on Bump in the Night. It's true that this isn't counting the time I spent on the first attempt, but I've only been seriously working on this project for 2 months. I already have a playable prototype with a full game flow, splash screens, a title screen, win and lose conditions, and a reasonably tense and fun proof-of-concept. I actually found myself in a heart-pounding adrenaline-rush of a situation while playtesting last night. I'm a little worried that the AI is too random, but maybe that's the charm of the Wolf scenario.

I've been trying to come up with something special to add to the Bear scenario. The three things that I thought of so far are: have the bear randomly know where the player is and head directly for them, don't add lights to the bear so that the player can't see them unless the flashlight is trained on them, and allow the bear to continue moving when snagged by the trap. The first and third options make sense in context. The bear is more interested in a larger meal than the wolves were, so it should be more active in hunting you. It's also bigger and stronger, so it's better able to move while snagged by the bear trap. I'm not sure if I can come up with a way to justify that the bear is stealthier than the wolves though. Maybe I should change it to a lion or some other big cat. That seems like a really good idea. I'll change it to a panther.

I should probably also take this time to brainstorm some other mechanics for the other monsters...actually, I just took another look at my notes and the other scenarios already have most of their mechanics defined and are somewhat interesting. The Robber cannot be trapped, only stunned with the taser. The Arsonist will be running around setting fire to your house, closing off passageways until you can get water to them. The Serial Killer will be mostly the same as the Robber except with body armor that you have to trick him into taking off by turning the heat up. He'll also have a gun. The Vampire might be problematic... The Ghost will teleport around much more randomly and will know where you are while you're reading from the book. The Aliens will also be problematic. I know they'll be messing with your controls, but I don't know how they will behave. The Zombies will behave mostly like the wolves, but will also be attracted to the shotgun noise much more strongly than other monsters, and you have to burn the bodies after shooting them. The Elder God won't move around the house, but will randomly attack you directly.

What to do with the Aliens? Maybe it'll be enough to make the aliens move randomly, hunt by sight, use a ray gun, and have three of them. Using the music box won't make them automatically know where you are like using the book will do to the Ghost, but it will increase their movement speed so they have a slightly better chance of catching you.

And the Vampires? I'll probably have to think about this some more. Maybe this is a good opportunity for me to replace a classical monster with something more interesting. But I'll give Vampires a try for now. Vampires are usually about stalking and seducing their target, either through mundane or supernatural charm or some kind of glamour. That might work if I have it influence the player's control somehow, kind of like the Mesmer in Subnautica. Although, if I'm being honest, I found the mechanic of the Mesmer interesting but not particularly scary. Even if it can mess with my PDA data. You just look away and the spell is broken. Maybe I can do a sort of bind-and-shake-loose mechanic. Being seen by the Vampire will stop your movement. Then the vampire will move slowly toward you. Attempting to move will gradually break the spell and allow you to escape. I like that, but what should the Vampire do when it's not in direct contact with you? Maybe I have it wander around randomly, hunting by sight, but you can't sneak up on it. If you move at all within a certain range of it, it'll freeze you and come after you. I like that.