---
title: Stair Surprises
category: game development
---
I had my first playtester successfully complete a scenario. It seems like my game has a steeper learning curve than I thought. I'm going to stick to my guns for now, since I haven't really had too many hard-core gamers actually try it out. Everyone that I've asked has been more on the casual side. They're not thinking "I have to invest time to learn this before it becomes fun" so they keep wondering if the game would be better with features that will make it easier to know what to do next or where to go. I'm thinking of implementing "progress hints" that will examine the current scenario, the items the player has picked up, and how long it's been since they've made any more progress. It'll show some sort of helpful tip for the player if they've gone too long without finding something.

Everyone has run into one problem at some point though. The monsters currently might just teleport to the top or bottom of the stairs just as the player gets close to them and kill the player with almost no warning. I don't think I can alter the monster AI to give them more time without compromising their behavior in more normal situations. The time between the monster spotting the player and attacking them might be too short, but that doesn't help much when the player just walks into the monster because they were going down the stairs and didn't see the monster at the bottom. I already know that the transition between floors is too jarring, so I'm going to add a fade-out-fade-in transition and special sound effects to better indicate that the player has changed floors. But that only gives me some wiggle room to solve this issue. It doesn't actually solve it.

I suppose I could just make the house one story tall and include other parts of the area like the yard or the storage shed or something. A better option would be to have an indicator when the monster is coming up the stairs. If I make them do the same fade-out-fade-in transition, that will give the player enough time to realize they're coming up the stairs. That doesn't really solve the issue of the player going down the stairs and the monster being right there. I'll have to make the indicator at the monster's destination appear much sooner than that. Maybe when the monster is coming up the stairs and is 3 pathNodes away from the transition pathNode. That's probably reasonable. I can stick all of that into the monster draw code. I only wonder if players won't know what that means and they'll think the monster just appeared right there. Maybe just a red glow will be enough rather than drawing the entire monster sprite. That gives more of an indicator without making the player think the monster is already there and forcing them to look closely to see that the monster sprite is partially faded out even though the dark environment already makes them look faded out. If I do the direction right, it will actually make it look like the monster's sight-cone is coming up the stairs.

A thought just occurred to me on whether I should bother doing this for the Panther or the Vampire. Right now, those are my only two "stealth" scenarios where you won't be able to see the monster unless it is close to you. Maybe then I could have it be "tryDraw" and only draw the indicator light if the player is within some distance of the stairs. That will preserve both the indicator and the stealth effect.

Man, this blog sure is useful for stream-of-consciousness dumps and brainstorming.