---
title: Vacation Soon
category: general
---
In just about a week and a half, I'm going to be leaving on a beach cabin getaway with my wife and a couple of close friends. I made a post several weeks ago complaining about my lack of close friends. I'm hoping this will turn that on its head. this beach front cabin has been in my family since my grandfather was young-ish. I've spent at least a weekend almost every summer up there. It's a prime piece of paradise. If only we lived closer. In that entire time, I've never had friends who I was close enough with that they were willing to make the 6 hour drive up there. I've brought one girlfriend up, but everyone else has been immediate or extended family. That's not to say I didn't have friends up there. The family that owned the cabin next door had a boy who was a year younger than me and much more mischievous and wild than I was. He was the one who first introduced me to camping and BB Guns. But he already had other reasons to be up there. This vacation will be the first time I've been up there and brought people that I have a purely platonic relationship with.

I'm hoping with all my heart that it goes well. The cabin has a way of making me...pettier? More childish? Easily irritated? It reminds me of some parts of my childhood that I didn't like. Being forced to spend time with people I didn't like. Do things I didn't like. I've already had one nightmare about this impending vacation where my plans and what I wanted to do was completely ignored by everyone else. Of course, my wife assures me that this won't happen. But my fear was bad enough that I had what I thought was an anxiety attack thinking about it. I really feel like I'm going downhill lately. Maybe that's because I'm starting to take the possibility that I might have serious depression issues more seriously. I just now read something that made me stop and think. It compared a person's attempt at fighting their way through depression to a track athlete with a sprained ankle. Trying to force yourself to feel happy when the depression hits is like the athlete forcing himself to run. As an athlete, you don't do that. You take a break, you train other parts of your body, and you let your ankle heal. The problem is, how do you give your brain a break? Maybe you do things that are considered "good for the soul"? Maybe the point isn't what you do, but how you react. Maybe the point of this was when it said "and get frustrated when you don't feel better." It's really another way of saying "give yourself room to feel bad." But that also strikes me as dangerous thinking. Leaving yourself alone in the hopes that the depression will heal itself can be very bad for more severe cases where the person actually needs professional help. I dunno. I've already made myself a promise. That I'll seek professional help if I ever start entertaining the thought of harming myself.

And now that that is all off my chest, I'm really actually looking forward to next weekend. My wife did a good job pitching Weave to a couple new friends I made last week, so they're coming over for a game. They're hard-core gamers, enough that they make me look casual. They have a special gaming table and a bookshelf completely stacked with board games. One of them even bragged about finishing painting a model castle or something like that. These guys are the hard core that Matt and Matt used to be before they became parents. I'm really looking forward to playing Weave again. I've also sort of been promised that we'll play it at least once during the vacation, but I'm keeping my hopes for that real low. I've been burned by promises like that a lot before.

I'm so glad I moved my journal to be virtual.