---
title: Game Off 2018
category: game development
---
For real this time!

[Game Off 2018](https://itch.io/jam/game-off-2018) is under way! They just released the theme for this year yesterday. It's hybrid.... now I just have to take that and build a game idea from it. I'll be using Love 11 this time. It's about time I upgraded from the 0.XX versions that I've been working with. They finally felt confident enough in their library to give it a proper non-beta release number. I'll also want to go back and update Bump in the Night to match eventually, which means changing the lighting engine and getting rid of the adorable Love splash screen. Oh well.

But now, on to the brainstorming. The site gives a few suggestions to help with interpreting the theme and getting started:

* Feature an imaginary (and hilarious) mashup of animals plants, or other objects with associated strengths and weaknesses. Giraffeopotamuses anyone?
* Crossover different game genres, such as a turn-based platformer, real-time roguelike, or tower defense rhythm game?
* Combine multiple visual styles. Perhaps pixel art characters exploring photo-realistic worlds?
* Include a composition of music styles and sound effects like bagpipes and breakbeats?
* Mix genres like Comedy Horror and Weird West?
* Be powered by alternative/multiple controls - button mashing meets mousing or mobile device interaction?

The different visual or musical styles aren't an option for me. I still don't have enough talent in either area. My previous games have lived or died based on their concept and mechanics. But I could always try adding in some simple storytelling. Something like what I tried doing for The Great Inkscape. Last year, I was driven to use the Heaven Variant soundtrack, which lent itself well to a space-shooter. I don't have a soundtrack ready to use this time. I wonder if KenneyNL has any inspiration for me. He's got a neat little top-down tanks pack, pirate ships, sokoban, a **bunch** of platformer packs, some roguelike packs, a space shooter pack that I used last year, and a handful of generic puzzle packs. I'm starting to think that my hybrid will take after the second suggestion and combine two or more game mechanics or genres in an interesting way.

What to do, what to do? Maybe a tank-based sokoban game? But then all my time will be spent coming up with the puzzles. A breakout or pinball based RPG? Where the playing area is a roguelike or RPG topdown field and the player character is the ball? Might have some potential, but that can get very deep very quickly. What if the game was breakout, but there were actual enemies that attacked your paddle or tried to interfere with your ball. Your only goal would be to break through the top layer of blocks and get your ball to the next room. Maybe you have more control over your paddle, like it can move up and down as well as side to side. And instead of just bouncing the ball off yourself, you actually slash it with a sword. You can break open certain blocks to get different resources, but once you get past the last layer of blocks, you move onto the next room. What sort of enemies and hazards would this game have? I think that there shouldn't be anything that is a hazard to the ball directly, it all attacks the paddle-character. The player will be able to bump enemies away from them, but the only way to actually do damage to anything is to hit it with the ball. This is starting to sound a lot like that terrible, yet interesting, PC game I tried called The Ball. There are a handful of top-down packs on Kenney that I might be able to use. I think I have my idea.

It'll be "Breakout Knight" to start as a working title. You play a medieval knight with a large magical sphere and a shield. You can use your shield to bounce the sphere around and it'll damage things it comes into contact with. You can also catch and hold the sphere and release it in a specific direction, but doing so will reset the ball's speed and destructive power. A dream feature could include some upgrades or spells, such as the multiball or large ball. Level progression is sort of the standard breakout model. You just have to get the ball all the way through the blocks so it hits the other side of the screen. There will probably have to be some blocks that are indestructible until all or some of the enemies have been killed.

Ok, I think that's enough conceptualizing and enough for me to start actually designing things.