---
title: Minimalistic Game Jam
category: game development
---
It's apparently game jam time!!!

I've signed up for the [Minimalistic Game Jam](https://itch.io/jam/minimalistic-jam-3) this week. Of all the game jams I signed up for, this was the most spur-of-the-moment ever. I usually have a lot of time to mentally prepare and plan out my schedule so that I can devote maximum time and effort to the jam. I *just* found out about this jam around 2 hours before it started, and decided it would fit perfectly with my next attempt at the convention easter egg game for the Feudal Age Japan theme.

The concept is still pretty simple, but much more complicated to build than last year's game. You'll be a samurai in his mansion, under siege by ninjas who want to kill your family. The ninjas will mostly come in through one of the four entrances to your mansion, but I may add some that will warp in from the ceiling to spice things up a bit. The ninjas will slowly move towards your family in the center of the mansion. If any of the ninjas reach your family, it's game over. I might add a slight delay, something really dramatic like the ninja pulling out a dagger or something. Each ninja will take three sword swings to kill. Your sword will move in a sweeping motion that could catch multiple ninjas at once. The objective is just to kill as many ninjas as possible. I want to have a high score table this time around. So there'll have to be a different game "screen" where the player can enter their initials.

I managed to get a basic mansion layout with a player object that moves around and collides with walls working today. The hardest part here will probably be the behavior of the ninjas. Bump in the Night has taught me to despise pathfinding if it's not maneuvering around a tiled grid. And I don't want a straight tiled grid this time around either, so I'm going to have to build the pathfinding all over again. Maybe I can be smarter about it this time. At least the map won't change as much.

Phaser is still a pain to work with. Mostly due to the lack of sample code available. Of course, I type that, and then get the idea to look at their tutorial section, and there's plenty of stuff there to pour through. Including a tutorial on Sprite Motion Paths, which will definitely come in handy as a substitute to more on-the-spot pathfinding. I still haven't quite worked out how to make pathfinding more "interesting." I can code up an A* algorithm that finds the shortest route to something, but adding anything more interesting is beyond me right now. So spline paths it is!!

I finally sat down and hammered out the revamped mechanics for the Alien scenario for Bump in the Night and pushed out a new release. Now I can take a more extended break and work on other stuff (like the previously mentioned game jam). I have my wife to thank for coming up with the new mechanic. The aliens now throw a slow moving but expanding bomb. The throw itself isn't lethal and gives the player time to figure out an escape route. The expanding blast zone is a good way to handle forcing the player to flee around corners to get away when their mind is being messed with. I'm really happy how it turned out. I'll be going back to an easier to code scenario with Zombies before going completely off the rails again for the Elder God. After that, it'll be cleanup, polish, and ART!!

I've been having another crisis of work lately, where I have access to a ton of tools and cool things, but no idea what to use them for. I want to write a book using Markdown EBook Publishing. I want to sign up for hosting on a free tier of AWS or Heroku or DigitalOcean so I can build an actual web app rather than being stuck on GitHub Pages. I want to write a playset for Weave. It's like I have the best hammer in the world and infinite nails, but no idea what shape to make the wood into. All tools and no ideas. At least I know why I want to learn how to draw.