---
title: Friday
category: general
---
And a Happy Friday to you too! I wish mine promised to be...anything. I'm supposed to meet a friend tonight, but she hasn't been responding to any of my messages. I don't know where we're going or when we're going to meet. I've held off on making plans for tonight because I thought I'd be going out. My wife is having friends over and I'm going out to give them space. I really don't want to get stood up and then have to come home with my emotions spilling out for my wife and her friends to deal with. I know my friend is really bad with texting, but she couldn't spare 10 seconds to write back "Yes" or "No"? I'm trying to keep this in perspective. We only met recently and our friendship is just getting started. We don't really have any obligations to each other that a long-standing friendship might imply. But still, this is just plain rude. I'll give her a call during my lunch break. Hopefully, she just isn't a texter.

If she does cancel on me, or doesn't reply, then I'm left with trying to scramble and find something else to do tonight. Maybe I'll go out by myself. What a rip that'll be. I might as well just go home, lock myself in my room, and kill some virtual soldiers to blow off steam. I guess this is just the way things can go with new friends. So far, all but a few of them have just gone dark with no cut off. They leave me reaching into the dark, not knowing whether they'd reach back or not. I want to be friends with them, but with all this abandoning, it's really hard not to think that it's my fault somehow. I definitely understand why people have to go to therapy for this. Ghosting is a terrible thing to do to a person just because of the unknown element. The ghosted doesn't know what happened and there's nothing they can do to find out more. And I really am getting ghosted a lot lately...

I've made good progress on my Weave playset. I think I'm at the point where I need to do another play test session. After that, I need to poke my artist about the cover art, and then I think it'll be ready for the big leagues. I'm *so* looking forward to Gencon next year, meeting the Weave staff, and maybe playing a few games with people. It'll be the first con that I go to just to go in a long time, other then that Retro Gaming Expo, which was also a lot of fun. Unfortunately, it's not until next August...

Man, I need to stop using "also" every other sentence. I just went back through this post and removed about 6 "also"s. 