---
title: Codependency
category: rant
---
Real talk here, because I'm having another depressive episode and I need to write it out.

I'm starting to think I really should go see a therapist. I can't stop thinking about yesterday. It was a mostly really happy day. A friend got married despite numerous setbacks for the actual ceremony, and it was one of the best weddings I've ever been to. But all I keep thinking about is how it got to 15 minutes before the ceremony and I didn't know whether the ceremony was going to be at the same location or time. The last I had heard, the original venue had to cancel due to a gas leak and the new venue was in danger of cancelling due to a double-booking. I was waiting for my wife, who was in the wedding party, to text me and tell me whether the venue was still a go or whether we were moving somewhere else. I waited until the very last minute to text her instead, because I couldn't deal with the fear that she had forgotten about me and left me behind.

I've been dealing with that fear a lot lately. Being left behind. I'm pretty sure I've become completely dependent on my wife for my social life. And now that I'm trying to take steps to change that, I've become even more aware of it. I'm torn between trying to be my own man and take charge of my own interactions with people, and having those interactions that are still dictated by her not get disrupted. She was my only source of information about the wedding yesterday and it felt like she was going to leave me high and dry.

Then today, a new friend I made at the wedding was staying over at our place before catching her flight home. The happy couple from yesterday were going to come by and pick her up and I was really looking forward to seeing them again. Then my wife suggested that the new friend come with her to work and that the bride and groom could just pick her up there, completely robbing me of any chance I would have to see them again. That was later retracted as a misunderstanding...no, I'm not going to lie to myself about that. It just plain didn't happen. The timings didn't line up. If they did, it definitely would have happened and I would have been left behind.

Then there's tonight. My wife and I haven't made love in a while. But she's off at work and can't tell me when she'll be coming home. I keep thinking of the times when she got angry when I forgot to remind her that I had volleyball some night. I have had no idea when she'd be home all day today. I don't know which way is right. Am I justified for feeling frustrated that she won't tell me when she's coming home? Or is that too pushy or annoying of me?

EDIT: So this part is actually coming the day after. My wife apologized for not telling me when she was getting home. She was exhausted after this weekend. I'm still going to remember this the next time I wind up getting home late...who am I kidding? Fairness shouldn't enter into this. Should it? I work a very regimented schedule. I know what time I'm going to get home from just about everything. So it makes sense that I would be able to tell her when I'm getting home. If anything, this just means that she should be more open to me suddenly having to stay late or deciding to go somewhere. But then I'm running into my codependency fear of ruining her plans with my own. That is probably going to get a lot easier to deal with when I work up to having my own plans more often. I know it's bad to say "This will be so much better when..." but this seriously will be so much better when my son starts school and my wife gets her days back.