---
title: Spooky
category: game development
---
It's brainstorming time!!

Movie Game Jam submissions are closed and ratings will end in just under a week. I took a week off from gamedev because the jam burned me out. I didn't really enjoy working on that project. I was burned out enough that, when I heard about the LÖVE Jam that started this past weekend, I collapsed in despair. I wanted to participate in the LÖVE Jam since I heard about it last year, but I knew this year would not be the year to start that. I needed the break, so I took it. Problem was, by Thursday, I was itching to get back into working on Bump in the Night. I had been away for too long and all the feedback I had been getting, both on Eating Machine and on Bump in the Night, was motivating me to work harder. So, I finished up the Vampire Scenario, added some basic enemy animations using my placeholder Dark Link sprite, and added a bit of shadow blurring that actually makes it feel like real lights (sort of). I'm also sort of back on my original schedule as far as task completion goes. Although that really means I'm no longer ahead of my plan. Maybe I'll get there again before February is over.

For now, I have to plan out how I want my next monster to behave. What is the Ghost's state machine going to look like? My basic behavior description reads:
> Hunts by sight and can move through walls. Randomly teleports to the same floor as the player. Knows where the player is while they read from the book. Reading from the book slows player movement. Player must read the entire book (filling a gauge) to dispel the ghost.

Which means that this is going to be the first monster I'm building that won't follow the normal pathfinding and won't interact with the walls. I originally thought I would be fine with having the ghost not really "teleport," but instead just move between the floors as they are arranged on the map. So the ghost will, every so often, drift onto a floor from off-screen. I think that's a recipe for badly timed jump-scares resulting in a game over that the player cannot avoid. So the ghost will be idle for some time. Then it'll move straight to a random node on the same floor, then idle again. Sometimes, it'll teleport to a random node on the same floor as the player and...what? I'll have to make sure the ghost can't teleport on top of the player. It'll have to be a certain distance away, or maybe fade into existence, or maybe...it could use the same red light indicator that the other monsters use when climbing stairs to show where it's going to pop in on the floor, giving the player time to get away. But how do I make the ghost threatening until you get the book? How will it really detect the player? How will it actually behave while the player is reading from the book?