---
title: Getting the Job You Want
category: rant
---
I'm wrestling with an issue that is forcing me to decide what I believe in regards to working for pay. My new boss is trying to put together a Happiness Committee, which sounds corny and useless, but I'm starting to think that we need it. We at least need **something**. Morale here is really low, as far as I can tell. The big problem I'm facing is that the committee will meet after hours for no extra pay.

On the one hand, my knee-jerk reaction is to say "no" to working extra for no pay. On the other hand, I believe that if you are paid appropriately for the work you do, and you only do the minimum amount of work you are paid for, then you will never move up. Doing that, in my mind, qualifies you as an "average" worker who does nothing but meet expectations. I think that I believe those sorts of people do not deserve promotions, recognition, or praise. You should get extra things like that for exceeding expectations. For working better or harder than your peers. On yet another hand, my wife just spent all summer and fall working for a company for no pay, just because it was run by her friends and hadn't made enough money to pay her yet. I understand that there are differences, but she still volunteered to do something for free because she cared about it. I might just care enough about this to volunteer to do it.

There's also a quote from Haikyuu that's been stuck in my head for a while. "You don't need incredible determination or motivation to start on something. Your life might change because you started something on a whim." Maybe I don't need to be 100% invested or absolutely certain that this will work. I can try it for a little while, see if it shows some promise to make our lives a little better, and evaluate from there. My new boss hasn't been very clear on how much extra time this will take. I'm sure I can donate 30 minutes after work once a week to something like this. Not to mention getting my name into the heads of some of the higher ups. This company doesn't have a good reputation for recognizing hard work with promotions, and I've felt like I've taken this job as far as it will go for about a year now. Maybe this is the break I need. Something that will at least put me on the radar of people above me so I can start working my way up again.