---
title: Tired on my Birthday
category: general
---
I really should have taken today off from work. It's my birthday for crying out loud, and I am completely exhausted for some reason. I woke up this morning and felt like it was going to be a real depressing day. I listened to some pick-me-up music and got my mood better, but I've just been so tired all day. I need to go into one of the conference rooms with a couch and take a nap or something.

I'm slated to have almost non-stop activity for the next week and a half though. Tonight is my quiet birthday dinner, tomorrow we start a new D&D campaign with a bunch of people I've never played with before, Friday I find out if a friend is available to go out next Thursday, Saturday is my actual birthday party, Sunday is my family birthday party, Monday I'm going out with a friend, Tuesday is a volleyball double-header, Wednesday is a rest day, Thursday is possibly a going out with a new friend day, and then things go back to lower activity next Friday. Maybe I'll get a Weave group together that weekend. This is the kind of life I wanted. I just wish the downtime in between things wasn't so depressing. It is very possible that the reason is because I don't enjoy my job anymore. It's almost like I'm not allowed to work on my own project because our velocity is already so high. I'll just exacerbate the problem if I actually start contributing. So all I do is answer questions about stuff, organize investigations, and help with initial requirements writing. I'm bored every day now...

But hey, happy birthday to me, right? It's been a rough year. I'm realizing that you apparently never truly get used to parenthood. Just when you settle into a routine and know what to expect from your child, they get a little older and completely change things up on you. I've gone through a few life-changing events this year. One day I might even be able to admit them to other people, and then maybe to the internet, and **then** I'll be able to post about them. For right now, these things will stay on my gitignore file, or just remain manually ignored by me. Either way, I'm making great progress. Other than that, my life is pretty okay.