---
title: General Stuff
category: general
---
Lots of things to talk about today.

I'm keeping with my workout habit. Except for a few days where we went away on vacation, I've kept up with my Mon-Wed-Fri morning workout sessions. I'm only doing 15-20 minutes on the BowFlex, but I think I'm starting to see some benefits. I'm starting to feel like I should up the weight limit on my exercises. A couple of them are getting too easy for me to get a good workout in the mornings. I feel different in little ways. I hold my arms out to the sides a little more when I walk. I feel some sort of difference in my back, like the muscles back there are more awake or something. I definitely felt something in my left arm. It would twitch randomly. I've started carrying my son in my right arm more often and the twitching stopped. I haven't lost any weight and I don't feel like I've gotten stronger. But then again, I don't have anything except the workout to test that theory.

I made a lot of headway with a much-requested feature for the convention website. Certain departments have asked me for a drag-and-drop scheduler so they don't have to deal with form dropdowns to schedule things. I was nervous about attempting it because I fell into my old NIHS trap and thought I'd have to build the whole thing myself. Turns out, of course, there's a library that does just what I need. Implementing it took about 2 days and less than $100. I still feel weird buying code from someone else like this. Maybe this will get me over the NIHS hump.

I've been working on my depression too. I'm still not 100% sure that I actually have depression or bipolar disorder or whatever. I catch myself from time to time just saying "I hate my life" or "I hate the world" in my head. I'm trying to stop that from happening and replace "hate" with "like" or "love." I'm not sure if it's helping in the long run, but my mornings are marginally better when I walk through the parking lot to get to work.

My son has been learning a lot of new tricks lately. He managed to stack his blocks 4 high a few weeks ago. He's learning more communication tricks. He's figured out how to kiss and won't stop giving them to my wife. He even learned how normal rotational doorknobs work yesterday. That's going to be a trip. I haven't written him an email in a while...

I've been wanting to try out Vue.js lately. Maybe use it to build an Electron app or something better than HIVE Weather. I've been perusing the list of free APIs occasionally. Problem is, I just can't come up with an idea for a cool web app that makes use of any of them...Of course now I get an idea. I've been searching for a problem to solve, but then switching back to a big problem in my convention website development workflow. The convention website project doesn't have CI of any sort, and given my team's relative inexperience with git and branch management, I'm not willing to turn it on. So, I've been looking for a way to take a `git diff` command and turn it into a script that can be read by an FTP client to upload changed files to the server. GitHub has a free API that I can use my credentials to log in to and list commits from. I'll be able to pick a few commits, and generate a list of changed files from it. From there...I'll need to figure out a way to convert that list into an FTP request that will take files from the folder on my hard-drive and upload them to the appropriate place on either the staging or the production server folder. Node has an node-ftp library. Oh man, I'm starting to get excited by this!! My first actually useful, personally thought-up, SPA and Electron based application!!!