---
title: Being Social
category: rant
---
I hate that I have to make compromises with my social life, or with my life in general. I'm starting to ask for more from my life, but I keep running into a wall with TOO LATE written on it. I just don't have enough time in the day to do the new things I want to do in life. I spent the years where I had time online and gaming. Now I'm a parent and really having to come to terms with the fact that my life really is no longer my own. I can't go out without worrying about my wife who is stuck at home taking care of our kid. And she can't go out without feeling the same way about me. Neither of us have the lives we really want anymore. Don't get me wrong, I love our kid. But being a parent is just plain draining. Everything we do has to be planned around naptimes and bedtimes and we can't just up and go out at the drop of a hat anymore. I just wish I had this revelation before.

But I have to face facts. My life isn't going to be my own again for another 20 years. That's what I wanted. I wanted to be a dad. I still do. I enjoy the little interactions with my kid and watching him grow and learn.

But I got an idea recently. I have plenty of other friends who are parents who are also suffering from the lack of a social outlet. More than one of them are in the same boat I am. But that's what toddler playdates are for. All I have to do is initiate the invitation, pack up the kid, and go out. It'll be inevitable that we wind up spending all of our time making sure our kids don't kill themselves or each other, but we'll be social and stuff!! I've already got plans for this weekend and the weekend after that.

I suppose what's really happening here is that I've just had a terrible week. It's Columbus Day, which means my feed is full of woke friends saying that this shouldn't be a holiday because it celebrates genocide. I don't get any extra vacation this week, but my volleyball league took the week off. My wife had some really big things planned for yesterday, but they got rained out. And our kid is apparently giving up afternoon naps. All of that put together makes for a very stressed out me. Then again, this actually happens every year in October. The seasons change, which usually makes me sick. My wife starts working all day every weekend, so she essentially gets no breaks ever. Next week is going to be the complete opposite of this week. One of us has something planned for every night next week. It'll be a completely different kind of rough.

Alright, so I just remembered something I want to get off my chest. So I was talking with my wife the other night. I had decided to pick up a Thursday night volleyball league and was concerned that she felt I was away from the house too many nights a week. If this league picks up, and my new D&D campaign goes more than one session, I will be away from the house three weeknights a week, while she will be busy, but home, one night a week, and out working the other three nights. She told me that we can't really compare them to each other since I'm out playing and she's out working. That really got me down, thinking about the unfairness of it all. It made me want to give up going out entirely. I always had it in the back of my mind that Thursday night would be our "date night" where neither of us had any plans and we just spent the night with each other.

I just had a rather unsettling thought. My wife doesn't have the same relationship with me that I have with her. It's possible that, no matter how much time we spend apart, she'll never miss me. And now I'm reeling. My brain is going a mile a minute but not actually thinking of anything. I'm just turning over previous conversations in my head and not getting anything out of them. I really should have actually taken up meditation...