---
title: Bootstrap Update
category: web development
---
I figured it was time I got with the...times. I spent a couple days migrating this blog to Bootstrap 4. It was considerably less painful than I thought it was going to be. And was probably only made more painful by me emptying out all the existing classes attached to HTML elements before getting started. There were a few entire pages I didn't need to touch and could have saved myself a good amount of time by leaving them alone. Oh well. You all probably won't notice a big difference. I sure don't.

The biggest obstacle that kept stopping me from switching was the fact that they no longer bundles the glyphicon font set with Bootstrap, which I use for that fancy nav bar in the upper-right. Turns out there are a number of forum threads of people asking for alternatives. The most-suggested alternative is the OpenIconic font, which I've switched to. I can't really tell if there is a noticable difference between the two. Maybe it comes down to whether the icon set has the icons a developer/designer needs. This site only uses 7 icons, 5 for the navbar, and 2 for the pagination controls.

I still really love this blog. I found a post by a college CS professor where he was bragging about how his blog doesn't need any of the newfangled responsive technologies. It loads in less than a second and only downloads <10KB worth of data to display. It's build with his custom script written in Pascal and doesn't require any kind of a stack since it's all static content (or just one page requesting post data, I forget which). You keep your super-simple blog, mister. I'll keep mine. Mine also loads in ~200ms and only downloads 100KB of data. I also don't care that the blog takes around a minute to compile. It almost never takes up my time. Just the server's. I can also say, now that I've tried and failed to build an Electron app, that not all new technologies are worth it. I'd have much rather built my No-CI application in .NET. It'd be a lot more stable and wouldn't have messed with my repository. Speaking of which, I have to see if Atom has an FTP package that'll suit my needs...

Not to mention that if I ever get tired of the theme and layout here, nearly all of my content is in Markdown anyway. It's super easy to change my layout and css files and completely change the look of the site. I could even switch these Markdown files to generate an eBook if I wanted. I already have a post gushing about Markdown and how much I love the uses it has.