---
title: Got an Itch
category: game development
---
I'm considering Eating Machine finished and have uploaded it to my [games](/games.html) page.

The game is also available to play in your browser from its [home](https://littlehive.itch.io/eating-machine) as part of my brand spankin-new [ITCH.IO STUDIO PAGE](https://littlehive.itch.io/). That's right, I'm starting to enter the public eye. For the most part, I've kept this blog a secret. A not-so-very-well-kept secret, but it has metadata that is supposed to tell search engines not to index it. I mean, you can pretty easily find it anyway. I have it linked from a couple of my other profiles, so I don't use this like a true journal and I avoid complaining about people close to me or venting too much about my own problems. Either way, it's not the same as having a profile as a creator on a pretty widely-used distribution network. Itch.io might not be as big as Steam, but I'm not big enough for Steam either. Looking at the quality of my games, you'd think I'd only been building them for 2 or 3 years, instead of 11 or 12. Maybe that's because I wasn't building games all the time, or maybe it's because I'm always building games by myself, or maybe it's because this is only a hobby and not a serious endeavor to me. I only have one or two games that are taking me longer than 40 dev hours to make. One was The Greak Inkscape, which was a really early project, and the other is Bump in the Night, which isn't done yet.

In either case, I'm really excited to start using itch.io to host and promote my projects. I'll feel a lot better and more professional about sending people there instead of to my GitHub profile. I have nothing against downloading things on GitHub, but it looks very bare-bones and technical to normal people. Itch.io looks more like how they would expect a gaming distribution platform to look. It's awesome. This is also the first time since college that I'm actively promoting myself as Little HIVE Studios. I even resurrected my old logo and everything! So excited!!!