---
title: No Reason
category: tabletop
---
Just writing for the sake of writing today, and making another post with the title "Bored Again" seemed in poor taste for some reason.

Today is set up to be a very boring day. I have one meeting and almost no work to do otherwise. I have volleyball tonight, but it's in the really late slot. I wish this work-tracking app would stop reminding me to track my hours. I already put in everything that I'm going to do today, but if I'm not actively running the timer, it thinks I'm not working.

I've been trying to be a little more mindful in the mornings. I got the idea that my morning routine could be a little healthier than waking up, taking care of the dog, and then playing video games until it's time to leave for work. I want to get back into the workout habit at least three times a week. I fell out because of advice from my chiropractor and then getting sick for about a week. I'm going to try and get back into it this week. Along with that, I want to try stretching and meditating a little each morning. I often feel like the reason I feel so lost in my day-to-day activities is because I don't spend enough time with myself. I'm always occupied by one thing or another. If I get bored, I immediately look for my phone, which inevitably has nothing new on it since I had just checked it 5 minutes ago. It's weird that this is a lesson that I've learned from my latest mobile gaming obsession, Idle Apocalypse. There, the more often you play, the fewer things there are to do. It's only when you wait and give it time to build up that you're able to climb the tech tree and interesting things happen.

I don't know if I've posted about this yet, but I've abandoned the idea of creating a Cosmere playset for Weave and instead started on a Monster Hunting playset that takes inspiration from Supernatural, Dresden Files, Buffy/Angel, Charmed, and X-Files. I'm almost 75% done with the first draft. The worst is yet to come. So far, it's been pretty easy filling in the cards after I gave each of them a "theme." But now, I have to actually build out unique pieces of the world as I fill in the NPCs and Enemies. The NPCs are going to be particularly difficult, just because there are sooooo many different situations to account for. Actually, that might not be true. I probably only have to think about the first half of most of the episodes and think about what kinds of people appear there.

It'd be really nice if I could go home right now. Or at least go to lunch.

I took the plunge and started playing Rocket League on Competitive mode. So far, it's not much different than normal, except that I haven't actually played in an uninteresting match since I finished my qualifiers. It originally ranked me at a low Silver, but I've won enough now to rank up to Gold. That puts me about square in the middle of the rankings, which probably isn't bad considering I don't really know how to fly yet. Looks like there are 20 ranks. If you say that 20/20 is the highest ranking, then I'm at 8/20 right now. I mostly play in the mornings, which means I get matched up with the EU crowd a lot. I still can't really tell the difference. Very few people play on PC, so they mostly used the canned messages that I assume are auto-translated for people using different languages.

I'm gearing up for a session or five of D&D again. I'm going to try playing a cleric. I played a spellcaster only once before, and it was a one-shot that we royally screwed up. The DM actually had to take an hour-long break to flesh out the part of the world that we wanted to explore, and succeeded in TPKing us under a sinking ship. I learned quite a bit from that experience. So yeah, the most fun I had ever had was playing a stupid fighter. I really like playing stupid characters. They give you such a great excuse to try things that stretch the story a little. Go wild and see what breaks, as it were. They also give you ideas for how to fill the dead space and come up with plans. Maybe that's why I liked Junkrat so much when I played Overwatch, and not just because he was a powerful character that I immediately understood how to use all his abilities. Playing a cleric might be kinda tough. I don't fully understand the "spellbook" style characters in D&D. I think they have access to the full list of cleric spells from the handbook, and they can prepare a certain number of spells for each level per long rest. Then they can actually cast those spells at any level they have access to, but it uses up one of their slots for that spell. So, a 3rd level cleric has 4 level 1 slots and 2 level 2 slots. That means they can prepare up to 6 spells per day, divided into up to 2 level 2 spells, and as many level 1 spells to prepare to bring the total up to 6. Then, they can cast 2 level 2 spells per day, which can include the level 1 spells, since they all include enhancements you can make when you cast the spell at a higher level. And they can cast 4 level 1 spells per day. Looks like most of the low-level spells enhance themselves by letting the caster use the spell on additional targets.

So I've got my character archetype in mind. He'll be a cleric of Tymora in the Trickery Domain, the goddess of gambling. He'll be a compulsive gambler and acquainted with Obaya Uday, one of the Waterdeep NPCs who is a cleric of Waukeen, the goddess of wealth and trade. We'll probably have an antagonistic relationship, with me coming to Obaya for money or money-making opportunities so I can spend it all gambling. I want to go light on the backstory this time. I poured way too much into Halfrek during the Knights of the Golden Rose campaign that I kept trying to work into the campaign, but the DM wasn't really ready for. So this guy will be a compulsive gambler who is always coming to Obaya to trade for more money-making opportunities. Maybe she'll send him out on errands to earn money, and he thinks he's always getting a good deal when he's actually getting the same deal as everyone else. I've already established that he has low intelligence, but his wisdom and charisma will make up for the sticky situations he might get into. The next bits are a race and a name. I thought human for this one, but I've only ever played humans and half-elves, at least, in the campaigns where I knew what I was doing. After looking through the races, my good options are: dwarf, halfling, human, and tiefling. I think I'm going to go with a Dwarf with a gambling problem. I can most easily picture that sort of character. Now for a name...this is always the most fun part. Let's see what I can pull from Dark Souls 3. For NPCs we have, Greirat, Siegward, Cornyx, Horace, Orbeck, and Hodrick. For bosses we have, Gundyr, Vordt, Wolnir, Aldrich, Yhorm (that's a good one), Lorian, Lothric, and Gael. Now for the last name. To the generator!!

Hmm, Yhorm Ironchest. That sounds pretty good. The dwarf cleric of Tymora, The Lady who Smiles.