---
title: Baldur's Gate 3
category: game-experience
---
10 months and 700 hours....

It's been a loooong time since I was honestly and truly addicted to a game. If I went more than a day without playing, I felt twitchy and short-fused. It might have been a problem... But I planned for 4 play-throughs to get as much out of the experience as I could, and I think I did.

Baldur's Gate 3 was a masterpiece. Absolutely deserving of the Game of the Year award. Plain and simple.

My first play-through was completely blind. I'm an experienced D&D 5e player, so I knew a lot of what to expect. It took me a little while to figure out some of the differences. Shove being a bonus action, being able to change prepared spells at any time, group/ungroup mechanics, stealth, and a few other things related to action economy. But my Circle of the Moon Druid and I made it through to the end. We completely botched the romance though, which was disappointing. I stuck with Gale, Astarion, and Karlach for almost the entire game and focused solely on their character quests. Shadowheart left my party after I completed the Gauntlet of Shar without her. I never used Halsin or Wyll, although I did recruit them. I slept with Mizora AND the Emperor. I botched so many things up, but we made it to the end and saved the Sword Coast.

My second play-through, I went all-in. I used guides, I used mods, I found nearly all of the side quests that I missed, I switched characters out all the time and finished everyone's side quests, I romanced Lae'zel and it was HOT, and I started experimenting with multi-classing. I found SO MANY THINGS that I missed the first time around. I completely flipped my "main" party and used Wyll, Lae'zel, and Shadowheart. My College of Swords Bard with her twin hand-crossbows and dips into Fighter made such short work of everything. Definitely my longest play through.

My third play-through was evil. I went full evil Dark Urge for this one. Not caring about any of the good endings. This was the shortest of my runs. No Gale, no Wyll, no Karlach, no Halsin, and no NPCs at Last Light Inn. But MINTHARA.... omg, Minthara was the breath of fresh air that kept me coming back. Not to mention finally experiencing a story that actually mattered to my character. Durge was definitely how the game was supposed to be experienced. I brought Minthara, Astarion, and Shadowheart around with me. I was a little worried that Shadowheart wouldn't be evil enough to stick around, but for all her complaining that we weren't being nice to people, she stuck it out and was with us to the bitter end... when I seized control of the Netherbrain and took over the world as my dragon-soul/fiendish Sorlock.

My fourth play-through was a little more of a slog. I knew it was going to be my last one. I wanted to experience the bad endings for everyone that I hadn't yet. The only one I managed to do that with was Karlach. I fell back to my College of Swords Bard, made them a Redemption Durge, and romanced Astarion. I had heard Redemption Durge and Astarion's "good" ending complimented each other nicely. I couldn't bring myself to give everyone else bad endings though. So this one ended up being a much more normal play through. I was there to experience what was probably supposed to be the "real" story of Baldur's Gate 3. The Redemption Durge is just so on-brand for how I think most people would play this game. I struggled a bit, but this play-through hit me REALLY hard. I knew the world backwards and forwards at this point and was free to just play around with things. I could cheese things without feeling guilty about missing the experience.

The whole thing was amazing. And now I'm finding reasons to see the cast do other things. High Rollers invited a bunch of the main cast for a short series. I've watched Neil Newbon's stream and interviews. I subscribed to the Narrator's TikTok just to have her say sweet things to me. If I had the skill, I'd be putting together one cosplay or another, though I have no idea who I'd want to cosplay. I've used SO MUCH of this game as inspiration for my own D&D campaigns. Especially seeding pieces of a player character's story throughout my campaign.

I actually bought a new computer when I was 3 boss fights away from the ending of my fourth and final play-through. I held off on setting the new computer up because I didn't want to sit through another 150GB install on the new computer just to finish the game quickly. When I finally uninstalled the game, I felt like I was saying goodbye to a very old friend. I don't really have anyone to talk about this game to. My co-parent picked it up, but doesn't usually rave about it to me. I suppose that's my one regret for this game, was that I didn't set myself up to experience it with anyone. I didn't know anyone who was playing it at the same time that I was. No one went through this D&D-adjacent experience with me, which is supposed to be a deeply social experience.

I love this game and it will be a part of me forever.
