---
title: PIRATES!!
category: japan
---
I just got back from seeing Pirates of the Caribbean 3: At World's End, and I want to say that I think I have been sufficiently spoiled. Nothing I could ever watch, play, or do will ever come close to how amazingly epic that movie was. If Pirates 1 = epic, and Pirates 2 = 2\*epic, then Pirates 3 = 1,000,000,000,000\*epic squared. That's how epic it was. I'm not going to spoil anything...except CRAB BATTLE!!!! I know a few of you have already seen it, but to the rest of you, GO! It is worth every penny and more.

Classes are going pretty good. I actually have it worked so that I can go to an anime convention (if and when I find one) for school. I'm doing an anthropology project on the rise of Otaku and what a major industry it has become.

I bought a Nintendo DS a while ago (dark blue), and I bought the games Mario Cart and Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney. They're both the Japanese copies, but you don't really need to read anything to play Mario Cart and Phoenix Wright has a bilingual feature, so I can play it in English. It's not 100% equal to the American release, but it's pretty darn close. We've had Mario Cart parties nearly every night for a while now. The multiplayer features are so good on this thing, that for a few games (including Mario Cart) a person who doesn't own a copy of the game can download a temporary copy of the game from someone who does. The copy gets deleted after the connection is severed, but the feature is really cool.

On a more negative tone, I appear to have lost my Citibank debit card. The last time I remember using it was to withdraw money before our trip to Kyoto, and I have this vague memory of taking it out of my wallet and putting it somewhere in my room before we left so that I was guaranteed not to leave it in Kyoto. I'm going to search my room tonight, and if I don't find it, I'll go to the branch in Shinjuku and report it missing. I can withdraw from my Bank of America account from their ATMs, so I'll have no trouble surviving. I don't even think there's a withdrawal fee, but it always shows my balance in US dollars, so I can never tell without doing an exact exchange (the withdrawal comes in a yen amount).

Finally, to end this email on a positive note, my friends and I have discovered Ninja Burger! Well...not exactly. We have discovered a ninja themed restaurant, where you are apparently served by ninjas that pop out of the walls and rappel down from the ceilings. You have to go through a dark hedge maze-like place to get there, but it's supposed to be really close by. We've made plans to go there tomorrow. I'll try to remember my camera, but I probably won't be allowed (or able, they are ninjas after all) to take pictures. It should be fun.
