---
title: Weekend
category: japan
---
Whew, what a weekend it has been. We had our ballroom performance on Saturday. After that, ballroom will only meet for two more weeks. That would mean four more lessons, but everyone's tired this Monday, so they decided to cancel it. That means I'll have an entire month of no club activities. Oh well.

We technically had hell week all last week, but I only had to go to the regular practices on Monday and Tuesday and one special practice on Friday. I felt really bad because I took a nap after my morning (and only) class on Friday and ended up setting my alarm wrong. I was a little less than an hour late. I felt really bad, but they were just glad I came. So I ran through my routine a few times with my partner, a freshman named Akiko. I think we did really well together despite the extreme size difference seen in the picture.

Ah, the pictures. I'll name as many people as I can. Although, I never did get to know a lot of them. The names are listed boys first.

Cha-cha 1-3 - Tetsu and ???? Cha-cha 4-6 - Daikon and Aya (president) Rumba 1 - Tetsu and Misuzu, and Ayumu and ???? Rumba 2-4 - ???? and ????, the guy is a freshman Rumba 5-8 - Ayumu and Ruri Rumba 9-13 - Daikon and Haruna Rumba 14-16 - Tetsu and ????? Samba 1-9 - Daikon and Haruka(blue) and Kei(pink) It was a three person dance Swing 1-4 - Ayumu and Hime(means princess, not her real name) Swing 5-10 - Daikon and Reina(the one who's coming to Fairfield next semester) Waltz 1-3 - Ayumu and ????? Waltz 4-7 - Tetsu and Chihiro

I forgot my camera the day of the performance, so I took the pictures with my phone. So the quality's a little lower than usual. I also didn't get any pictures of myself dancing on my phone, but other people took pictures of me, so I'll ask them for copies.

The actual performance was a lot of fun. I was supposed to do my routine only once. But after I did it, my friends came during intermission, and the president suggested that I do it again for them. Then, after the performance was over, their old dance instructor (sensei) showed up, so we did it again for him. Oh, and did I forget to mention that my partner's mother came to see her. That scared the pants off me. I kept thinking that she would be thinking "Who is this weird American that's dancing with my daughter?" I didn't get to meet her, but I think she was impressed.

Then we went to an afterparty at the same place the welcoming party was held at. We were pretty social until we started eating, and after that I was just bored out of my mind. The restaurant had a Playstation 2, which I plugged in and played for a bit with the other foreigner that came to the afterparty (only three of us were at the performance). I played one game, lost horribly, then went to the bathroom.

When I came out, I had an idea. A group of other members were sitting in a circle, looking about as bored as I had been a moment ago, so I grabbed a deck of Uno cards and proceeded to do a few card tricks for them. This sparked a whole new energy as we explored any matter of weird things we could do to keep ourselves occupied. The only one I remember is putting my two pointer fingers together, getting a person to focus on them for a little while, then pulling them apart quickly. The idea is that your eyes will look in opposite directions for a moment. The party started getting more energetic, but before I knew it, we were done. I took the same train as a few other members (including my partner) so we talked about the usual things you talk about with foreign students. What's your major, where are you from, where do you live, etc. I'm going to miss these people and all the Japanese they've helped me learn. Oh, and I got a cool (but two sizes too small) t-shirt out of it.

On Sunday I met John (from my home judo club) for lunch. I was kinda worried that he and his brother would leave everything to me and I would have to find us somewhere to eat. Fortunately, they already had a friend who had been in Japan for four years already to guide us around. We went to one of the music stores, then to the world's best ramen restaurant (I forget the name), and finally to Akihabara. The restaurant was a little weird. Apparently the old Japanese custom is to eat alone, without talking to anyone. So everyone had their own private booth, with curtains to separate you from the cooks in the middle. The ramen was excellant, but I didn't really care for the atmosphere. John and his brother seemed to have a good time. It's too bad I won't see him anymore after this unless he comes back to CT to visit.
