---
title: Epilogue
category: japan
---
Well, every good story seems to have one. So I thought I'd throw one on the end of mine in the hopes that it will join all those good stories in the "Story Hall of Fame" (is there such a thing?). I have been back home in the states for about a week now, eating scrambled eggs and drinking root beer (just like I promised) and slowly getting over some more extreme jet lag. Before I go into my overall impressions, here is the last event that I participated in.

First, the hanabi, or fireworks. I went with the ballroom club in full awareness that this would be the last time I saw them. We first stopped at this little restaurant that the club leaders had made reservations for. It was a nice little place with a Hawaiian theme (which made things interesting because three of our members are from Hawaii). It was incredibly nostalgic when they started playing Disney songs as background music. The Salsa performance was done to "Under the Sea," so there was much squealing from the girls when that came on. We had some combination of hamburger and clam meat, which was delicious.

We went down to the something river (can't remember the name for the life of me) to see the fireworks. I pulled out my happi (Japanese old-style coat. looks like a short kimono) in full force and the other members immediately started pointing at me and saying (jokingly) "Yakuza, now you're yakuza" (Japanese mafia). I couldn't deny that my happi did look a little too showy, but they all wanted me to keep it on, so I did.

I had no idea how big this fireworks show was going to be. Turns out that 90% of the fireworks factories are along this river. And since they're all privately owned, there's a heavy spirit of competition between them. They all pull out there best equipment around this time. You can't look in any direction without seeing at least one source of fireworks. It was beautiful. I managed to get the fireworks setting working, but I had to put the camera on top of a car to stabilize it. I thought that I was getting the reflection of the fireworks off the river (that really wasn't there), but it was just the roof of the car. Certainly less cool, but no less beautiful. We took one last group photo, then left to get ready for the summer.

My plane ride back was a smooth one. I had finally figured out how to sleep while sitting up, so it seemed a lot shorter. They showed Spider-man 3 on my little TV screen. I watched it twice in Japanese. I didn't get the warm, fuzzy feeling I usually got when my Japanese was put to a test and passed, but I was still proud of myself for being able to follow the movie (seeing it in English beforehand helps too).

There was only one real bump on the journey home. I was supposed to wait in D.C. for one hour before my flight to JFK in New York left. Unfortunately, that one hour was not enough to pick up my bags, go through customs again, check those same bags, and board the plane. So I missed my flight out of Washington. It was around this time that I realized that I left my American cell phone in Japan (!!!). I figured I would call the manager when I got back and have him send it to me. I found a pay phone and called home to tell them I'd be late. The airline had automatically rebooked me on another flight...one that left five hours later. I slept in the terminal and got home without another incident.

Now that I've been back for a week, I can feel I'm starting to miss some of it. Mostly, I miss the constant language practice. I brought back a few games and books, but I'll definitely have to find a small speaking-practice program around here. Living in a big city has made me used to a much more active social life. Unfortunately, Tokyo "closes" earlier than most cities in America, so I also got used to an early end to things. I'm also missing the train system. Now I have to find my own way everywhere? And pay for the fuel to get there (gas is over $3.00!?)? How inconvenient! Oh well, it's still good to be back.

P.S. I Godzilla-ed Tokyo!
