---
title: Yokohama
category: japan
---
Well, I slept until noon today. Boy, did that ever feel good. I didn't want to do anything else today other than visit Yokohama. Yokohama is the biggest port city in Japan, but I only went to see the ocean. Little did I know there was so much other stuff there.

I wanted to go to Rinko park, which is right on the water, but I was interupted by the Maritime Museum. There, they had the Nipponmaru, the flagship in Toyotomi Hideyoshi's navy from 1952. You could go on a tour of the ship, but all I had were 10,000yen bills ($100) and I didn't have the time or energy to go on it. This was purely a bare-boned tour of the city. I do plan on going back and taking the tour of the ship, going to the amusement park, and exploring Snoopy Town eventually, but right now I'm very tired and don't plan on going out again today.

Saw a really good pair of jugglers. These two were putting on a very professional show. They interacted with the audience really well, and I was suprised at how much I understood them (they spoke entirely Japanese). I was laughing at their jokes along with the rest of the audience as they did balloon animals, diabolo, devil sticks, box juggling, and fire juggling.

The ocean was beautiful, especially with the Bay Bridge in the background. I totally didn't know that's what I was looking at until I saw a sign about it. Then I was really impressed. Didn't see any ocean liners though. Sorry, Erin.

I've uploaded most of the new photos and a couple of (very small) videos. This time, the videos amount to around 3.5MB, so they are going to be considerably easier to download than that last batch. The seemingly random stream of water in one of the videos was just a really cool fountain that ran into the ocean. I thought that a picture wouldn't capture it quite well enough, so I took a video.
