---
title: More Vacation
category: japan
---
So, there's an epidemic of measles on campus. Apparently, Japanese kids aren't vaccinated against it, but because of that, we have absolutely no school for the next week... ... ... ...HOORAY!!! Of course I'm sad that some kids are sick with the measles, and I know that the classes are going to have to pick up the pace (and maybe meet on Saturdays) to make up for this, but I'm still happy. I went out for karaoke to celebrate, and (this one's for Mattosai) I did a pretty good rendition of Higurashi no Naku Koro ni. And now everyone wants the song.

Unfortunately, because of the measles, all club activities are cancelled for the next week as well. Which means that the Amity Asakusa tour I was going to go to tomorrow has been cancelled :(. I might go to Asakusa anyway, but now I have a whole new week of vacation to mess around with. Some of my friends have resurrected plans to go to Kyoto, and I'm in with them. We still don't know how it'll pan out, but now we suddenly have a week with no plans! Woohoo!

In other news...I AM THE PROUD OWNER OF A BRAND NEW NINTENDO DS!!!!! and I actually found it in Tokyo, where it is supposed to be impossible to get them because they're so popular. I found it in one of those little back alley stores that has way too many old games. They not only had Nintendo 64 and Game Boy Color games, they also had Famicom, Virtual Boy, and PC-32 games! That's like finding games for Atari or Colecovision. Jen got one too. She got the light blue one and I got the dark blue one, neither of which you can get in America. We paid about 17,800 yen for them (about $160). The funny part was that we were stuck in line behind an old couple with a list that one of their children obviously made. They spent about $700 on a Nintendo Wii and peripherals. We were waiting for so long that if they didn't actually have them, we were ready to riot (except that we were both kinda weak from hunger). I actually got the last dark blue one they had in stock. I didn't buy any games yet, but I'll definitely be back there again in the near future (despite the fact that most of those games won't work on American Systems).

That's about it. I don't know what we're going to do for the rest of the week, but I KNOW that we won't be huddled in our rooms playing DS the whole time. There should be a couple pictures of karaoke in the album. Enjoy!
