---
title: To the Future!!!
category: japan
---
Yesterday, me and a few friends went to the Miraikan, or the Future Museum. We had originally decided to go to the aquarium in Yokohama. Then we found out it didn't exist. The building I was thinking of was actually the Maritime Museum, which would have been fun anyway. Then I looked at the map in my guidebook of the area, and noticed a building labeled "Kirin Beer Village." Upon further research, I found out this is where they make Kirin (a Japanese brand name) beer and that they offer tours of the factories. However, upon mentioning this to my friends, I discovered that they had already done their own research and were planning on going to the Future Museum, which sounded infinitely more entertaining (and likely to be interactive) than my idea. So that's what we decided.

I've uploaded pictures from the museum, but I was too busy playing around with stuff to take too many. The first thing we saw was a demonstration for a high-tech robot called Asimo. The name is an acronym for something, but I forget what. It was really cool. The robot was interacting with the audience and showing off all the things it can do physically (most impressive of which was running). After that, we saw a giant suspended globe that was littered with little LED monitors. It could display the landscape of any of the planets and the Earth in a few different views. The most entertaining display was the "Now Loading" screen that showed up whenever it switched pictures.

After that we saw a whole bunch of interactive things, like laser markers that tracked your writing and recognized certain shapes and made the light produced do different things, a virtual reality program that simultaneously let you talk with other people using the same type of machine in other parts of the room and taught you about texture mapping, and micromachines. There were two incredibly entertaining exhibits that I found in my exploration.

One was the history of the computer, which included a brief history on programming. It examined C and Fortran, but also Java and LISP (both of which I have studied in school). It was incredibly nostalgic.

The other was an interactive model of E-mail. You took 16 black and white balls and arranged them in a sequence. The first eight told the machine which other machine to send the message to, and the other eight were code for a letter. You pushed a button, and then you could watch the 16 balls travel through a couple machines across the room to their destination. When they reached the destination machine, the first 8 would drop out and the last 8 would be analyzed. Finally, a letter would appear no a tiny screen. It was a long and tedious process, but that's essentially how email works. We spent a long time playing around with it. Even managed to make it crash a few times (which we got scolded for).

However, the day did not look like it was going to end well. We were about to leave when I decided to look back on what we had seen. I reached for my camera and found it was not in my pocket. I had left it near one of the interactive exhibits! I ran over to the information desk because the museum had just closed, so I couldn't go looking for it myself. I managed to stammer out that I had forgotten my digital camera inside the museum. They made one call and told me to wait a minute. About 5 minutes later, they were quizzing me on the brand of my camera. I didn't remember, but I told them that there were pictures of Disneyland on the camera. They pulled out what was obviously my camera and turned it on. Sure enough, there were pictures of Disney on it. They handed me my camera and I left with a "I love Japan." The cool thing was, all but that last phrase was entirely in Japanese! Awesome!

After we left the museum, we went to Wendy's for dinner. We had intended on seeing a few acts of "The 12th Night" done in Kabuki style, but the Wendy's was horribly understaffed to accommodate all 11 of us. So the ones who originally wanted to see the play (this group did not include me) ordered first, and the rest of us ordered later. They almost missed the whole thing, and we did, so the three of us that were left just went home. We heard about it the next day, but I'm not terribly interested in Kabuki, so I don't regret not going all that much.

Wish me luck on my finals. I have one more week until they start.
