---
title: Last Week
category: japan
---
Oh man...it's my last week here. It certainly has been an adventure. This probably will NOT be my last email from this trip, but it will probably be the last one that says anything about actual events that happened that were not reported before. So gather round, children, and let Uncle Joe tell you how he is spending his last week in Japan:

Well, you all know I climbed Mt. Fuji and survived. After taking a few days to recover, we had our farewell party here at the dorm. There were only three Japanese people (out of 20 that were there). I was very proud of myself for being able to understand Manager-san's talking (entirely in Japanese). He asked us what the most fun thing we did while here was. I said it was my tour of Kyoto. I only knew that I would NOT say climbing Mt. Fuji.

And then finals started. My first three were this past Monday, which was supposed to be our last day of classes. The first one was the first third of my Japanese final, which consisted solely of a oral skit that me and Ryan had put together. We decided to focus on the chapters dealing with inviting a friend somewhere and giving directions to a driver. To accomplish this end, we decided that I would invite Ryan to a wizarding tournament, I would get hurt (and switch roles to an ambulance driver) and Ryan would give directions to the Muerta (a la Isle de Muerta) Colliseum, which is in the Forbidden Forest. We both wore our wizard hats that we had bought at Disney, and I brought my OFFICIAL wand that I bought at the Harry Potter premiere. For those of you who must know, I did not get Harry's wand because it looked like a twig, and they didn't have Dumbledore's or Snape's. So I got Ginny Weasley's wand. You will understand how cool it is (if you don't already think so) once you see the pictures.

ANYWAY, my next two finals were essays, pretty much hand-in-and-leave type. One was anthropology, in which my subject of choice was Otaku (gave me credit for going to conventions), and the other was Religion. The latter was a book review of Jenkins' "The New Christendom," the story about how Christianity in Latin America and Africa will replace European Christianity as the "typical" Christianity. I feel pretty confident in all three. That was Monday

Tuesday and Wednesday were the second and third...thirds of Japanese. I also think I did pretty well on those, but I didn't do much else besides plan my weekend.

Thursday was the actual last essay for my anthropology class. That essay about Otaku was just to fool you (it worked on me). This one was also a book review on the textbooks. There were two, both pretty much journals chronicling two separate journeys to Japan. Pretty interesting stuff now that I've been here for 4 months.

After handing that in (still Thursday), Cameron invited me and a few other people to her home stay for pancakes. That was fun, and I finally understand why Cameron's Japanese is so much better than ours. She uses it ALL THE TIME!!! Ahem...anyway.

After that (STILL Thursday), I finally got to meet with Sayaka-sensei. For those of you who don't know (which is all but a few), at Fairfield, each language class has an extra Oral Practice Session (OPS) that the students take once a week. The OPS is taught by a senior who is either from the country, or studied there. I actually plan on doing that when I get back. Anyway, my OPS teacher during sophomore year was Sayaka. We had been emailing back and forth this whole time, and I finally got to hang out with her. We went out for karaoke, and she was really impressed that I knew any Japanese songs at all. Hooray, more Japanese practice.

Mattosai will love this part. Today, I had something special planned. Fate/ZERO (a Japanese novel series I have been following) Volume three just came out today. So I went to Akihabara to buy it. The only thing was, I went with EvoSpace!!!! Mattosai should be the only one excited right now, but for the not-so-well-informed, there's a media company that I really like called Type-Moon. There's an English message board for fans of Type-Moon that I am frequently on. EvoSpace is the name of the administrator of that message board. He knows pretty much everything there is to know about Type-Moon merchandise (anime, games, manga, you name it). It was a lot of fun hanging out with him. He brought his friend Soth (his username on the message board) who is Spanish, and looks suspiciously like Mattosai (except his beard was fuller). Kinda creepy.

Finally (you all still with me?), I arrive back at the dorm to find out that there's a festival going on that I had no knowledge of. It is the Bon Festival, a festival celebrating being grateful to one's ancestors.  It kinda looked like a bunch of people dancing to a drum circle (made me kinda homesick too). It was a nice surprise.

Tomorrow, I'm going to see fireworks with the people from ballroom. Time to try out the fireworks setting on my camera! (Yeah, I was surprised too). Then I have one last final on Monday (Sunday will be spent studying), then there's one day of packing, then I leave to come home on Tuesday at 4pm. Looking forward to seeing everyone!
