---
title: Kyoto - Part 2
category: japan
---
As promised, pictures and video are also on the way.

Day 3 of Kyoto: We went to the Inari Temple. There's a path lined with a couple hundred torii gates (but we'll call it the Thousand Torii Path). I filmed a few tidbits of our little adventure through there. It probably wasn't the best idea to walk that much on the last day. We were tired enough as it was. The temple was beautiful too.

We then went to Nijo castle. Now this was a castle! Complete with a moat and everything. There was only one open enterance the day we went. We discoverred this when we enterred on the south side, and tried to exit on the north side and found only water in our way. I walked up to the top of one of the towers. I really felt I could see anything long before it could reach the castle.

The last thing we did was try one last time to get into the Imperial Palace. We failed, so we sat outside the gates for a couple hours watching the sun set. My batteries had fun out by that point, so all pictures of the Imperial Palace were taken on day 2.

And that was it. That was our trip to Kyoto. I might go back sometime, now that I at least know how to get around. The bus passes are freely availible and can be used on any bus for the day as many times as you want. They might as well give you wings considering how extensive the bus system is. They all run on bio-diesel, so I can't imagine what that's doing for the cost to maintain Kyoto.

I didn't really do anything yesterday (Saturday) except sleep. But today we went to a matsuri in Asakusa. Apparently, according to legend, three men found statues of the Buddha floating down a river in Asakusa. They built a temple there to worship the Buddha, and eventually became gods themselves. There was a festival today to honor them, but it was an impromptu visit, so I completely forgot my camera. Sorry everyone! Afterward, I came back and have been doing homework ever since. School starts back up tomorrow, and we finally find out what will happen to make up the week that we lost. I hope it isn't too bad. There's still lots of things I want to do.
