---
title: Day 2
category: japan
---
Don't expect this to happen everyday (but it probably will anyway). Day 2 has mercifully come to a close. I'm still suffering from jet lag. I was wondering why I felt so sleepy during orientation, then I looked at my watch (on which I have an extra clock to tell time in America) and realized that my body thought it was 2:00am. I was falling asleep on my feet by 6:00pm (5 in the morning in America). But the day was amazing.

I spent the first half of the day in my room. They serve orange juice at breakfast! I was so thankful as I cannot seem to live very long without some kind of fruit juice. I also discovered that the vending machine in the dorm serves Mitsuya Cider, which is pretty much 7up. The can is about 4 inches taller than a typical American soda can. I spent the rest of the morning resting in my room (and watching StrikerS. OMG, Subaru is awesome!!).

Me and the other gaijin (foreigners) decided that we would all meet at 1 to follow eachother to campus. We figured that between the 9 of us, we made up one complete tourist. Orientation was pretty painless. I finally re-established contact with Jen. It was the usual stuff, don't do drugs, if the police catch you without your papers you could be fined or put in jail, counseling services are availible, try to make friends with Japanese students and don't just hang out with gaijin etc. etc. It was all in English, and only half of it was with a Japanese accent.

Afterward, I met up with my "Japanese Student Moniter" which would essentially be like a Big Brother program, only mine's a girl. Inccidentially, she is also the person that was sent to pick me up at the airport yesterday. We went down to one of the school dining halls with her friends and the students they were assigned to moniter. The system is pretty strange at first. You pick what you want from a menu and pictures, then you pay for a ticket from a vending machine, then you take the ticket to the cook and she makes your meal right then and there. I ordered Curry Udon (essentially spicy noodle soup) and got a whole lot of Japanese practice despite having probably the worst profiency at our table. I was amazed at how many exchange students are practically fluent in Japanese, but maybe they just stand out more.

Afterward, Me, my guide (Naoko), her best friend (Emiko), and her best friend's assigned exchange student (Mike) went shopping in Shibuya. I felt my sleepiness getting worse and realized that my body thought it was 5am. But I knew this would be a wasted opportunity if I decided to go back to the dorm. I didn't buy anything, but it was a great chance to see things. We went to someplace called Tiffany's which, at first glance, appears to sell purses and jewelry, but sells more mundane things like kitchen equipment and snacks on the lower floors. Then we went to a game arcade and got Shupuri, which are those tiny pictures that you get taken in booths on street corners. Except here, they're a pop phenomenon. An entire section of the game center was devoted to photo booths. We got about 8 taken, but the first few are horrible because me and Mike couldn't understand all of the directions coming from the speakers, but Naoko and Emiko saved them with a little creative art. In America, you can only pick the backgrounds, but in Japan, you can add all sorts of things to the pictures. And they're all stickers too, so I can put them practically anywhere.

The last place we went was HMV, pretty much a really REALLY large FYE. There, Naoko and Emiko were pretty suprised and impressed when I went to a set of sample headphones and started singing along to the song. I then decided that was enough and that I wanted to get back before I collapsed. So, here I am, in my small, cold room, about to fall asleep at the computer, finishing up my report of the day. See you tomorrow!
