---
title: Monsoon
category: japan
---
Well, today was admittedly better than yesterday. Even though I did sleep through the meeting time for the picnic, I went to Yoyogi park anyway, hoping to catch someone I knew and follow them.

I ended up getting distracted by the street shows that were there. I only took pictures of the two most unusual. One was a man painted like a statue. He had a box of candy and invited the children to come have some (there were tons of parents around to supervise, so I guess they all trusted him). The problem was, he would hold as still as he could, then when the child's hand got close, he'd close the box. It was pretty funny.

I moved on and ran into Basketball Man. Now this guy was funny! He didn't speak all that much Japanese (mostly English) so the rest of the audience couldn't appreciate most of the show, but I was impressed. This guy's skills with a basketball were real. He was amazing, and he balanced it well with a bit of humor. The one picture of him laying on the basketballs is actually supposed to be him flying (or rather, rolling with the appearance of flying).

Afterward, I went to Akihabara to look for a game store. I only got to three, none of which had the game I was looking for, before the sky got dark. It was only 3:30, but the buildings made it look like 5:00. A really large storm was coming and everyone knew it. So I joined the flow of people running to the station and got in minutes before it started pouring, and I mean POURING. I mean to go back tomorrow and look around again, and I'll bring my umbrella this time, or at least check the weather.
