---
title: The List Gets Longer
category: japan
---
More on the subject later. For now, let me just tell you that our trip to Fuji this weekend has now been thrown into question. Apparently, on Saturday night into Sunday morning, a giant storm (probably a hurricane) will hit Japan. As a result, Mt. Fuji will most likely be closed. No one here seems to be all that worried about damages to other places, so I'm not all that worried either. It'll just mean more time to work on my final essays (3 of them).

I went to the Sophia Theater Club production tonight. It was an adaptation of Shakespeare's "The 12th Night" that took place in a modern mental institution with modern patients. It was incredibly funny. The lead (Seamus, the one in the picture with the burning waterfall coming off the temple in my Disney pictures) had one moment where his patients at the mental institution were getting out of hand, so he went backstage and a picture of his eyes appeared on the backdrop, and he said, in a very loud voice "NOW SETTLE DOWN PEOPLE, WE SHALL TAKE OUR SEATS UNTIL THE SESSION IS OVER!" The other funny part was actually a blooper. The backdrop's were from a projector that was hooked up to a computer running Powerpoint. After one scene transition, the computer's virus protection software ran out, so a notice appeared on the curtain "Your Norton Anti-Virus subscription has expired. Now updating." It was the funniest thing I had ever seen.

Now, for the subject, the list of which I am talking refers to the list of things I am not allowed to do anymore. I say this without a shred of arrogance, but the reason I'm not allowed to do these things is because I'm too good (this is a list my friends are making, by the way, so this is entirely their opinion). Said list used to only include Mario Kart (which they let me play anyways), but has now expanded to include Darts.

For those of you who don't know how to play, each player starts with the same number of points (301 in our case). Each dart subtracts a certain number of points depending on where it hits on the board. The object is to get exactly 0 points. If you go under, you are bumped back to the points you had when your turn began. Game ends when one player reaches 0.

After we saw the play, a few of us went out to a bar that happened to have darts. I played in the first game. It looked like it was going to be a one sided match (with me falling far behind). Until I ended up with 60 points (everyone else was around 10 or 15). When my turn came up, one of the other guys said "Now all you need to do is hit the triple 20." And then I did! I came from behind and won! Nearly the exact same thing happened for the next two games. And now I'm not allowed to play darts anymore. Sheesh.
