---
title: What a Waste
category: japan
---
Boy, today was a disaster. You know that time when you were eleven and you knew you wanted to buy one of those new toys, but you couldn't decide which one no matter how hard you thought about it, but you refused to leave the store until you decided. Then, just when your parents thought you made up your mind and are about to pay for the thing you decided on, you go and change your mind at the last minute and make things difficult for everyone. Yeah...I kinda felt like that kid today, except the new toy I wanted was a social situation where I could practice my Japanese or hang out with fun people (preferibly both) but I couldn't decide what to do, and no one else in the dorm had any good ideas.

So I ended up leaving with the intention of checking out a nightclub in Roppongi with Jen and a couple friends. Then I discoverred how far away it was and remembered that I didn't tell my dorm manager that I'd be out all night. I had a choice: head back to the room and be back in time for curfew, or call him, try to convey in the most polite way possible that I'm sorry for not informing him that I'd be out all night and breaking policy by informing him this late, and THEN finding a place to spend the night because the doors here would be locked.

I think we all know which choice I made. I was practically at the doors to the club when I decided to head back and take the hour-and-a-half trainride back to the dorm. So now here I sit, angry at myself for a whole multitude of reasons. That I forced myself to try and do something tonight simply because it's supposed to be the first day of vacation, that I couldn't make up my mind on what to do, that when I finally did settle on something my sense of obligation to a dorm manager who wouldn't have minded if I called and said I was staying out late and my fear of not having a safe place to sleep at night made me chicken out and run to my room, and finally, there's a lingering feeling of letting my friends down by being a party-pooper.

I knew it was bound to happen. I was bound to have a couple of bad days and it was only a matter of time. It's all made a little better by the knowledge that next week is going to be the best week ever. If I'm not lucky, I'll get to see Spiderman 3 on Tuesday. If I'm lucky, I'll get to see Spiderman 3 on Tuesday AND go bowling with the Ballroom Club. Tomorrow, the International Friendship Club is having a picnic. I may or may not go to it. After today, I really don't feel like interacting with anyone right now. I've also thought about going to Kyoto for Wednsday and Thursday. I'll have to do some research on where I could sleep and what the train situation is like, but it would actually be a nice adventure (unlike tonight). Then there's next Saturday. A weekend to end all weekends. I'm going to a FIRESPINNING FESTIVAL!!!!!

Oh yeah, I also aced my Japanese chapter test this morning.
