---
title: Disney and Broken Trains
category: japan
---
We went to Tokyo Disney. Technically, the "again" is inaccurate. We went to Disney Sea last time, but this was Disneyland in Tokyo. They are really close together, but they're not the same park. Just as before, I had an amazing time. I went with Ryan, Allie, and her friend Brett. Allie and Ryan go to Georgetown together. Yet again, I felt like a kid. I think Disney Sea was better, but that's probably because I wasn't with Allie, who's an absolute Disney fanatic and only wanted to do the things she hadn't done yet, which wasn't much. It was still fun to do the things we did when my family and I went to Disneyworld in Florida. A lot of the stuff was directly taken from there.

Our first stop was Big Thunder Mountain, a small roller coaster that sends you through a cave that has an earthquake happening around it. After that, we went to Splash Mountain. It was exactly the same as the American version, except it was entirely in Japanese! They sang Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Da in Japanese (that part of the refrain wasn't translate. It was left as nonsense).

Then Brett finally came late, so we went on Thunder Mountain and Splash Mountain again. Afterward, we went to Fantasyland (just another section of the park, not a ride) and saw the first parade of the day. I really wanted to stop and look, but Allie wanted to tour the Haunted Mansion. We decided to watch half the parade, then go to the Mansion. The parade was awesome. I got a lot of really good pictures of the Disney characters, some played by Japanese people, most played by foreigners. The Mansion was shorter than I remember.

Then we went to Toontown and rode the Roger Rabbit ride, which was also shorter than expected. All the good stuff happened at Tomorrowland. We first rode Space Mountain (of course), then came out and went on Star Tours, which is kinda like a tour of Star Wars. You ride in a little shuttle into space and end up coming out of warp speed in the middle of a battle against the Death Star. It was good, but also pretty short. We had space pizza for dinner and went on the Buzz Lightyear Space Fighters ride, the one where you shoot little targets with infrared lasers and get points. I totally kicked everyone else's butts! Grand Total score = 42400. Second highest score = something like 25000. I ruled!

After we walked out of that ride, we decided to find a seat and wait for the light parade to start. It was right around this time that I figured out where the Night Snapshot option was on my camera. The pictures still didn't come out all that well, but they were a lot worse before I switched the option. The last thing we did (before buying souvenirs) was watch the fireworks. This was really disappointing, probably because of the inclement weather. It was supposed to rain today, so they might have shortened the show. I didn't buy that much at the shops, mostly because I had misjudged how much money to take with me. I still have enough to make it to the end of the month with souvenir shopping. I just didn't bring it with me.

After we left and split to go our separate ways, Ryan and I found out that the line that we usually take to our dorm had an accident. We panicked, but only for a second. We looked at a map and found an alternate route  back. The only thing was, a LOT of other people had the exact same idea as we did. I didn't think trains could get this crowded. I literally could not move my arm above waist level after I put it down. We somehow managed to make it back a half hour before curfew. I would upload pictures now, but I'm really tired and I have a test tomorrow. Good night. I'll upload tomorrow.

Oh yeah, my plans for this month. Tomorrow's July 4th, and I had heard that someone was planning something small, but I'm not sure what. This Friday, I'm participating in a voice experiment that some graduate students are doing. Saturday is Tamabata (Star Festival) and Ryan's birthday. The 14th is supposed to be a trip to Mt. Fuji (finally!). The Harry Potter Movie comes out on the 20th. Finally, there's a fireworks show on the 28th that the ballroom club is going to. It's going to be a great last month in Japan!
