---
title: Birthday
category: japan
---
Yesterday was Ryan's 22nd birthday. He made dinner reservations at a really nice restaurant that was heavily Japanese-themed and at a billiards-and-darts bar. We were only out until 20 minutes past curfew, and, since we called and said we'd be late, the manager didn't mind at all.

When we walked into the restaurant, it felt like walking into the Edo period. We had to take our shoes off (nothing special there), but then we walked down a long and winding hallway lined on either side with white gravel. We even walked on a bridge over a small pond before being seated! It was beautiful. The dinner was yakiniku, which is when they give you several plates of raw meat and you cook them on the griddle in the middle of the table until they're just as cooked as you like them. Except that, instead of a griddle, this place had a pot of broth to cook the meat in. It was incredibly delicious, but they only gave us one plate of meat to cook in it. They cooked the rest for us...kinda disappointed at that. I didn't bother bringing my camera with me, so I'll see if I can steal from someone else's album (heh heh heh).

When we went to the bar, our party doubled in size. I hadn't played pool in way too long, but since we had so many people, I only got to play once. We (actually, it was mostly me) divided those who wanted to play into teams of two and just flipped in two new teams between games until everyone had played once. After that, it seemed to be a free-for-all, but everyone was a little drunk by then, so it didn't matter. Everyone had a great time. We did have one person who was too drunk to get home by himself, but he lives here at the dorm, so the other six or so of us who lived here too were able to escort him back and make sure he was ok. His Japanese was already incredibly good to begin with, but it seemed to actually get better. What a surprise that was.

I finally got to sleep in for the first time in a while this morning. Last weekend was the toy show and I have classes every weekday morning, so this morning felt really good.

I don't even have a month left here... boo hoo.
