---
title: Kyoto - Part 1
category: japan
---
So, it's about 3:30am here, but I can stay up a little longer because I just slept for 6 hours to make up for the 7 hour overnight bus ride I took last night. Thanks to a dozen or so Sophia students coming down with the measles, we got a week off from school this week, so me and four friends decided to go to Kyoto, the cultural center and former capitol of Japan. I'm really tired at the moment, so I can only tell about half of what we did tonight, but I'll do my best to make up for it tomorrow.

Day 1: We arrived by overnight bus in Kyoto at about 6am. Two things struck me about Kyoto station: 1) the inside looked like a Transformer and 2) the mascot was Astro Boy. We showed up to the Orange Inn (our lodgings for the three days) way early, but the manager let us in without any problems. Me and the other three guys slept in one room, while the one girl that came with us slept in a seperate room. The accommodations were pretty good. I wouldn't mind staying there again. We settled in a bit, then set out to see the sights.

First stop; the Silver Pavilion. Unlike the Golden Pavilion, the Silver Pavilion is not silver. It is called that because the owner at one time had the ceiling of one room painted silver...that was it. It had some pretty sand gardens and ponds, but that was about it. We weren't allowed inside.

The next thing we did was the Philosopher's Walk, a 1mile walk alongside a river in eastern Kyoto. I don't know anything about its history, but it was a fun thing to do.

We then went to Nanzenji Temple, where the Kyoto aqueducts are. Now that was impressive. They're nowhere near as big as the Roman Aqueducts, but still impressive. Then we went to Gion, the geisha district. We saw a couple of geisha walking around, but we felt too awkward to ask them for a picture.

We did, however, have the opportunity to see a cultural show that had tea ceremony, koto music (the thirteen-stringed instrument that lays flat), flower arrangement, gagaku (court music), kyogen (ancient comedy), kyomai (geisha dance), and bunraku (puppet play). That was about all the culture we needed for the day and we were really tired, so we pretty much crashed into our beds that night and slept soundly.

Day 2:

The Golden Pavilion was beautiful. It was our first stop this day. The garden around it was beautiful too. I'll just let the pictures speak for themselves.

Ryoanji Rock and Sand Garden. The garden here is supposed to have 13 stones in it and you're not supposed to be able to look at the garden from any angle without seeing at least 12 of them. I only found this out after I got back, but I wondered why all the other people were counting the rocks.

Finally, we went to the Kyoto International Manga Museum. Unfortunately, they didn't allow pictures, so I don't have any proof that we actually went inside. But we did! and it was awesome! I've never seen so much manga. We spent the most time just wandering around being amazed. We stopped in the children's section and looked like idiots as we exclaimed "We can actually read this!" over and over again. It was kinda pitiful.

That night we celebrated with a bit of a drinking party on the roof of the Orange Inn. It occurred to me that the picture of the rooftops you could see from the roof of the inn would be perfect for a ninja battle. I'll have to remember to photoshop myself into one of the ones I took.

That's all for today. Look forward to day 3, more pictures, and some video tomorrow.
