---
title: Bank Card
category: japan
---
Well, after much aggravation over my room phone, I finally figured out how to call people. It turns out that I have to dial 0 in order to call anyone outside the dorm. So, I called Citibank's international help line, and told them my story. I was worried that they wouldn't be able to help me because I didn't have any information about my account other than the last four digits of my card number, but they were satisfied by my name, social security number, and mom's maiden name. They're going to deactivate my current card, and a new one is being sent to me. It'll be sent to the Citibank in Shinjuku on May 30th, so I'll go a few days later to pick it up. What a relief that was.

However, I did spend the majority of my day worrying about that, so I didn't do much else. One of my neighbors brought his Wii to the common room (which I had never been in before) so I got to play it for the first time. He had WiiSports, Warioware, and Naruto Shippuden. Warioware was the funniest. The game is a huge collection of mini-games that usually have a purpose similar to "Pick your nose, you have 3 seconds!" or "Answer the phone, you have 4 seconds!" But Naruto was the best. Ten-ten has a Cloud sword, along with a whole host of insane-combo weapons, so she soon became my favorite character, but all the characters are really cool.

We've postponed our plans to find the ninja restaurant until next weekend because a lot of the people who were going ended up at the theater, watching Pirates 3, and going out to party afterward. A good excuse, if you can find any good excuses for missing ninjas. Also, Yuta postponed his BBQ until next month. So I really didn't miss anything by worrying about my money situation. Don't know what I'm going to do tomorrow, probably homework.
