---
title: Kodokan
category: japan
---
Now before any of you who know what that subject means get your hopes up, I want to make this statement. No, I didn't go there yet.

For the rest of you, know that the Kodokan is the most famous Judo dojo in the world. It's in Tokyo Dome, so you can imagine a judo class inside a stadium sized building. Although, I'm not sure about any of the details, i.e. if the classes are actually held inside the stadium or in some adjacent building.

On to the reason why that's my subject if I haven't been there yet. I found the Sophia judo club this evening. They were (as were all clubs when I showed up) thrilled to have a potential new member. They were even more thrilled when I told them I had a black belt and had been practicing judo for 14 years. There were only about 5 other members, 4 or which were black belts. This discouraged me a bit, not because I was worried about getting pummeled (not counting the white-belt, who was Mexican, I was the biggest one there) but I was worried that the class would be all warm-up, uchi-komi (practice throws) and randori (practice fighting/sparring). These fears were further aggravated when the captain brought out a rather large timer, and they were confirmed when class began.

We started with simple warm-ups. I was just starting to get warmed up when I realized "Wait a minute, this class is going until 8:00. That's three hours of judo! And they practice four times a week!" I knew I was in for a rough ride, so I paced myself. The first round of randori consisted of 5 rounds of 4 minutes each (as would be the pattern for all randori to follow). The only thing was, we started with mat work (ground grappling only) which is probably twice as tiring as stand-up. I was seeing stars by the end and was extremely grateful when the captain called for a 5 minute break. Next was 2 rounds of 20 minutes of uchi-komi. That gave me an opportunity to get my breath back a little more and I was ready for the next set of randori. Stand-up was much better and I was easily able to hold my own against the blackbelts. I even managed to give them a pointer or two (which I'm pretty sure they took kindly, but I'm not too sure).

Only one of the black-belts knew enough English to give me detailed instructions, but that didn't matter at all. This was my home sport, language and everything. They say "Uchi-komi, Ippon Seoi Nagi, Ni-Jyu" and I don't even have to translate it into English. I immediately know they want me to practice the shoulder throw 20 times. I love it! As an additional bonus, this club isn't so serious that they demand attendance. I don't know how lenient they'll be with me, being a black belt, but I talked to the Mexican (his name escapes me) and some other foreign members who came to watch but not practice and they said that the captain actually recommends that they don't come everyday. We'll see, but I have a few other clubs to check out before I settle into anything.

Now for the subject of this email. It turns out that this coming Sunday, the Sophia judo club is going to a tournament...AT THE KODOKAN!!!!!! No, you don't have to ask. Of course I'm going (provided I can find it) and of course I'll take pictures. The other foreign students say that it's not all it's hyped up to be, but I don't care. IT'S THE KODOKAN!!!! I'm too tired right now to be as excited as this email looks, but I know I'll be excited come Saturday night.

Just thought you'd like to know. The pointer that I gave to two of the black belts is when you get stuck in the ken-ken uchi mata, you pull out first, then around. They were all pulling towards their center.

Well, I have studying to do. If all goes well, I'll have four classes tomorrow and Monday, but I'll only have one the rest of the week.
