---
title: Classes
category: japan
---
Woohoo! First day of classes...is over. I had three of my four classes today (and you'll all be happy to know that I've already finished what little studying was assigned). I got into Japnaese M1 (kinda like level 1.5) which may be a little basic for me, but I've forgotten quite a bit since last year. I'm also taking Development of Japanese Civilization 2, Ethnography of Japan and Other Societies, and Philosophical Approaches to Buddhism (which I haven't had yet).

These are all the classes I wanted, which means that I should get full credit for my core requirments back at Fairfield. I still have to pass, of course, but that shouldn't be a problem. Provided that the religion course doesn't require any books, my total cost of books was around $300. I had planned on spending a little more than that, so this is pretty lucky.

My Japanese teacher seems really nice, but she switches off with another teacher for a couple days a week. This'll be the first time I've had a class everyday since high school. My ethnography teacher is pretty interesting. He has a sense of humor similar to my high school math teacher (which is a very good thing). It's an intro level course, so I don't expect to have any trouble with it. Finally (for now) my civilization teacher is also quite a character. The only problem I have with him is that he uses the scaled grading system, which means that he takes the students grades, then gives them a letter grade based on how they compare to the other students. This means that for every quiz and test, at least one student is guranteed to get an F. I really don't like this system, but the material seems enjoyable enough. More on classes after I've had the last one, religion.

I've noticed that all the other foreign students seem to be a little burned out. I guess the week of "Oh my god, I'm in Japan!" has worn off and now they're all pooped from seeing as much as possible in a week. Resting yesterday really helped me.

This weekend I begin the hunt for Yuta and the other poi spinners. If I don't find them by May (which won't happen), I have an advertised event that they'll all be at on the 5th.

The weekend's almost here!
