---
title: Yasukuni and Onsen
category: japan
---
I had an interesting history class yesterday. The teacher had actually planned a field trip to the Yasukuni Shrine WWII Memorial Museum, but he forgot to factor in the 45 minutes of talking he wanted to do before we left, and the 30 minute walk to get there, AND that some people had class after his class was over. The class is supposed to only last an hour and a half, but those numbers don't add up correctly, so a lot of people were late getting to their next class because of poor planning. Also, because the teacher walked so fast, a lot of students ended up getting lost on the way, so they just went home. I didn't have class afterward, so I stuck around the shrine for a bit (I wasn't allowed to take pictures though, even if I had remembered my camera). I saw the Zero Fighter, a couple of anti-aircraft guns, and a train...that was about it. I debated taking the tour of the rest of the museum, but had homework that night.

Today, on the other hand, me and Jen finally got to check another thing off our list of things we absolutely have to do while we're here. We went to an Onsen (hot spring)! It was a lot...less impressive then I had imagined. First off, the actual spring was a tub about 2 yards square, filled with black water. That's right, black water. We went with a co-ed group, and although I didn't think that we'd be together, I at least thought the baths would be in adjacent rooms so we could talk to each other. But no, there were about 3 layers of walls between us and them. In any case, even if it didn't meet my expectations, I still enjoyed it. It seemed like the best place to go after work to unwind. They had a tea room to sit in after you got out of the spring, massage chairs, and stacks of pillows for the extra weary. It was fun, definitely something we'll do again (I hope).

As for the weekend, we're having a volleyball game against the girls' dorm tomorrow morning. I don't think it's the one Jen's staying at though. I signed up for it yesterday, not knowing that the due date for signups was actually last week. I caused a little inconvenience, but they decided that, since I was willing, they were going to let me play. The signups were actually for the lunch that was going to be provided after the game. Worst comes to worst, I'll just be a cheerleader.

On Sunday, I finally found a convention to go to. It's at Tokyo Big Site, I'm pretty sure admission is free, and I'll finally be able to get to a Japanese anime convention. Hooray!
