---
title: Mt. Fuji
category: japan
---
So...I climbed Mt. Fuji yesterday, and Dante got it wrong. Going to the last circle of hell does not involve going down into a pit, it is an excruciatingly painful upward climb. Actually, let's see...today's Thursday, we started climbing Tuesday night and climbed until Wednesday morning. So we climbed for the entire night, from 7:30pm till 4:30am, which was far too short. There were six of us: Me, Colin, David, Ryan, Charles, and Ryouma. We started out ok, but tensions quickly ran high as the differences in our athletic ability started to show. David had done cross-country all through high school, so he was in the best shape of any of us. Ryouma, a half-Japanese and half-British person, was probably second. He was also the object of a great deal of yelling (both from me and from the rest of the group) because he had a deadline to keep the next morning and wanted to get to the top to see the sunrise (despite the fact that, after a certain point, the sunrise always looks the same), so he kept telling us to hurry up.

When we eventually got to the section of the mountain that is at an 80 degree angle (I'm not lying or exaggerating, it was un-walkable) I actually started to feel better, probably because my adrenaline had kicked in for that section. Then it started snowing (yes, snowing). We couldn't tell at first because we couldn't see beyond the light of our flashlights, but it was falling too slow to be rain. That was entertaining.

Perhaps the second most de-moralizing (second to Ryouma's constant complaining about our pace) was the fact that there were 10 numbered stations on the map AND 2 or 3 rest stops between them that were not on the map. So you would see some lights in the distance and think "Thank God, we're at the 9th station. There's only a little more to go" and then see that it's only the first of 3 rest stops before you get to the 9th station.

Friendships were tried, bodies were hurt, and spirits were nearly broken, but we made it! We actually made it to the top! We didn't make it there in time for the sunrise, so Ryouma didn't even want to go to the top because there would be no point, but I didn't care. I had decided to stop listening to him at station 6 (we drove to station 5, which is NOT halfway up the mountain) despite the fact that he was my ride home. I didn't have enough energy to do anything special, but I had someone take a picture of me. They finally got it on the fourth try because their hands were shaking so much.

The way down was much more harrowing in terms of my relationship with the people I was with. We made it down the actual cliff okay, but then we had to walk halfway around the mountain (ok, that's an exaggeration, but it was something like another hour of walking) they left me behind for about a half hour. We were in the cloudline at the time, so we couldn't see each other. In that time, they called back for me ONCE! And I fell asleep on my feet for a second and fell down. Once they heard that, they were extremely apologetic (all except the one who had been hurrying us up the mountain) and said they would stay with me the rest of the way down. But when I stopped to lean against a wall for a minute, THEY ALMOST LEFT ME BEHIND AGAIN! But I called for them to stop, so it wasn't that bad this time.

We got to the car and started off for the hot spring. I threw up into a bag on the way there. When we got there, Colin asked me why I looked so tired. I told him I had just climbed a mountain and couldn't finish my sentence before he said "So did I. So what?" Before I could speak up, David said "Yeah, but you didn't throw up in the car." Colin apologized to me and we were ok. The hot spring felt SOOOOOOOO good. One of the baths was jacuzzi style. I spent almost the entire time there. The guys ditched me again, but I felt too good to care.

We went to get something to eat afterward, and walked to three places before settling down on one that matched our price ranges. I really didn't want to walk anywhere else, but we had no choice. I slept through the meal, but I only ordered orange juice (I wasn't feeling up to eating anything). Then we set off for home. I slept straight from 6:30pm until my alarm went off this morning at 7:20.

All-in-all, we made a lot of mistakes: like not bringing the right kind of food, starting too late, going too fast, and going at night. But I think it was worth it just for the fact that I can say "I climbed Mt. Fuji." However, someone I know apparently doesn't think that's worth something. He had invited me to a End-of-Semester party tomorrow and had asked for final words by noon today. I didn't know how I was going to feel tomorrow, so I said "no" to avoid future confusion and frustration. He asked me if I was ok, and I said I had just climbed Mt. Fuji. AND HIS REPLY WAS "SO?"!!!!1!!!1!! I couldn't believe it, but I stayed calm enough to send him another text message, telling him what I said to you two sentences ago. AND HE CALLED ME A WUSS FOR SAYING "NO"!!!!!! I've never been so furious in my life. If I hadn't been so tired (and if I had known where he was at the time) I probably would have marched right over there and beaten him to the point of going to the point of hospital. But I calmed down quickly and wrote him a really long email instead, to which he replied "Ok, sorry. You can still come if you feel better." Sheesh, some people just don't know when to stop.

Well, I feel like I just got done with a week and a half of judo camp, and, despite the length of this email, I can barely type, but I think it was worth it. Sorry about the length, I really needed to vent that our. However, I swear, if anyone else makes light of what I have done in the last 48 hours, it will be their head.
