---
title: NINJA!
category: japan
---
So I realize that it's been a little while since I've emailed. Not a whole lot has happened these past few days (other than today, but I'll get to that). Midterms start next week. I have one in History on Monday. A few of us met a couple days ago and divied up the readings. That way, we could all just study each other's notes. That day, we also acquired a slightly random guest. A Japanese freshman looking to practice her English followed us to the restaurant we were going to study at and stayed with us for a while. It was kinda awkward, but she seemed like a nice person. I doubt we'll ever see her again though.

On to why the subject is what it is. I just (about 5 hours ago) ate at the greatest restaurant ever!!! Allow me to describe my experience in all its glorious detail:

We (the 5 of us) went to akasaka to eat at a particular restaurant that we had heard about and were dying to find. We found a little hole in the wall type door. The man waiting outside took our reservations and led us inside. The lobby inside was really small and dark. A young girl asked us to wait a moment while she called for a waiter. She yelled something in Japanese and a panel of the wall opened. Out walked...A NINJA!!! (minus the face covering). This ninja led us through a series of passageways, including a moat of sorts. She asked us all to yell "Nin-nin" at the same time and the wall across the moat let down a drawbridge. We said it again once we were all across and the bridge came back up. Our ninja led us to a small room where our table was and asked us to do wait for another ninja. We had to take our shoes off before sitting down, but they gave us ninja slippers to wear. It wasn't too long before another ninja walked in and gave us menus. The choices were expensive and in great variety, so we had a bit of difficulty choosing. The ninja (our waiter) said that, if we liked, he would leave, then, when we were ready to order, we were to push the secret ninja summoning button (all this in near-perfect English) hidden somewhere in the table. We accepted and found the button (it was actually quite obvious). I ordered a 10 course meal for exactly 7,777yen (around 70$). It was totally worth it.

I don't remember what many of the courses were. The first one was shuriken-shaped chips made of bamboo ash. The second was lobster pudding. One of them consisted of a kind of meat sauce served inside of sea shells. When the waiter brought this out, the dish he brought them out on had the three seashells at one end (three of us ordered the same course set) and a black line running from the shells to the other end of the plate. The ninja took out a lighter and lit the other end of the line. He shouted something that I couldn't understand, then "KATON" (fire-art), then something that sounded like "KATS" (release or unleash). The fire traveled up the line, and as soon as he said "KATS" it exploded under the shells, cooking the meat inside. It was amazing!! The only other dish I remember was (literally) stone soup. The soup was brought out cold, but before it was served, two fiery hot rocks were placed inside to cook the soup.

Then came the ninja magician. He decided to pick me as his assistant and asked to look at my hand. He exclaimed something and pulled out a magnifying glass (he only spoke Japanese). He said I had a ninja hand and put a 10yen coin in my hand. He then took out a pen, hit my hand three times, and the 10yen coin (which was brown) changed into a 100yen coin (silver) while it was still in my hand (then he let me keep it). The ninja went on to perform all sorts of other (kinda simple) tricks. It was the most fun I've ever had at a restaurant. All the sake were named after ninja seals or famous ninja (the only one I recognized was Hanzo, sorry Kevin). We've made plans to go back near the end of the year, and we heard rumors that there's one in NYC too.

I had forgotten my camera, but fear not, mere mortals. One of the people I was there with did not forget his. I will hound him for his pictures for all he's worth within the next couple days. I promise.

P.S. I just finished Pheonix Wright 1

P.P.S. I told the straight banana joke while we were waiting for the bill
