---
title: Sorry About Yesterday
category: japan
---
Yeah...I was WAY too tired to write an email yesterday. After the zoo trip, we wandered around for a bit, then David and I were invited to go to Karaoke. So I was exhausted last night. I hope you'll forgive me if I didn't name any of the new pictures from yesterday. Although, I didn't know exactly what I was looking at most of the time.

Description of yesterday: We found the zoo with relative ease. There were five of us, all looking forward to spending an enjoyable holiday doing stuff in Tokyo. It turned out that admission was free for that day. What lucky timing! I took a picture of the sign just to prove it to everyone.

The zoo had a lot of birds near the entrance, some of the most brightly colored birds I've ever seen. I took a few pictures of the explanation signs, but I still didn't know what I was looking at for most of it. The exhibits of the bigger animals, like the tigers, bears, and giraffes, were so crowded that we had to fight for a good photo angle. We saw sleeping tigers and lions and of course pandas, rolling bears, and one pacing polar bear. I tried to take pictures of the nocturnal section, but they didn't come out very well, as expected. So I took pictures of the pictures in the explanation posters. We saw a pair of otters playing around in the water. They were soo cute! Later, we saw the seals (that was for you, Dad!), but they refused to come out of the water, so the best I could do is get them when they came up for air.

The best thing we saw was a polar bear. He was just pacing back and forth like he knew what these people came here for. Either that, or he was trying to defend his territory or something. I took a video of him, which I'm going to upload (along with another video that'll be mentioned later). After the polar bear, we got into the regular zoo animals, elephant, giraffe, and buffalo. In front of the buffalo exhibit, there were prairie dogs (this one's also for you, Dad).

Then we came upon this beautiful section of the park that was just a lake with a few islands in it. There were a lot of water birds wandering around this section, like swans, ducks, and a whole bunch of other birds. Just when I thought to myself "I wonder if they have a blue heron. Probably not" I saw something that looked suspiciously like one. It turned out to be a red-crowned crane. It got my hopes up a bit, but turned out to be a disappointment. It was a beautiful bird though.

There was a monorail going through about half the zoo. We had decided to walk to get more photo opportunities, and we did, but I took a picture of the monorail anyway. It was pretty cool, almost enough to make me want to take a ride for the heck of it, but no one else wanted to.

That about wraps it up for the zoo trip. Me and David went out for karaoke with Jen and a few other girls that we knew. Me and Jen sang Disillusion (F/SN) and Jen and David sang Phantom of the Opera and shamed us all with their abundance of talent (David's in the glee club at Georgetown). So, I was pooped last night and didn't get to write anything about the day.

On to today: As you all know, today was supposed to be the day of the big fire festival in Inokashira Park. I had about six other foreigners come with me to see the show. I got a bad feeling when we were about 5 minutes away from our stop that this was going to be a disappointment. Turns out I was right. We scoured half the park before we found them (but saw a host of interesting things on the side), and when we did find them, it was just a friendly gathering to socialize and practice, not to spin fire like I had thought. Initially, I was disappointed that I had gotten my hopes up so high when I knew what could happen, but I stayed and hung out with Yuta and his friends for about an hour and a half.

They loaned me a set of poi and gave me a nametag and I started spinning. After about 45 minutes, Yuta looked at me and asked me to show him an "American Trick." I was quite astonished. I had spent most of the time watching him and stealing his moves, and now he was asking for one of mine! After I had composed myself, I showed him the trick where I warp both poi around one arm once, then bring them over to the other side, conserving the momentum so they unwrap on the other side. As I was demonstrating, I heard Yuta say "Sugoi (Amazing)" and "Ah, naruhodo (Ah, I see)". About five minutes after I stopped, I looked over, and Yuta was doing it! He had actually "stolen" one of my moves! That is the other video I've uploaded, ten seconds of Yuta practicing something that I taught him! I'm only cursing myself for two things now. That I didn't get his contact info, and that I haven't yet gotten a picture of myself with him. I promise, you and myself, that I will get both next time I see him. He travels quite a bit, so I might miss my chance, but I will watch his website closely and, if I get the chance, I will not miss it.

I wandered around the park for a little and saw a balloon-animal show. The guy blew up 7 balloons at once! It was really impressive, but I didn't have time to stay for any more. We had decided that since we weren't going to spend the night watching fire, we would climb Tokyo Tower, so we did.

the climb was a lot like the Statue of Liberty, and the view was like the Empire State Building. There were something like 500 steps, and we climbed up and down them all. The funniest thing I saw there was a window in the floor that let you see down 150 meters (about 485 feet) down. Yes, those are my feet on the window in the picture.

We found a miniature model of the tower for picture purposes. I had someone take my picture twice, once just posing normally, and once acting like Godzilla. This was not going to be the time we destroyed it. I need to have Jen with me when we do that, and we need to find the right place in the neighborhood to get a good picture angle. Look forward to that.

Right after taking the pictures, we were asked by a couple of Japanese girls to take a picture with us. So, me and three of the other guys posed in front of the model with them. I didn't have a chance to hand my camera off and have it taken before they left. Oh well. I'm going to sleep well tonight.

Ok, tonight I have a bit of time. So I'm going to rename the pictures from today and upload them. Enjoy!
