---
title: YUTA
category: japan
---
Ok, if the subject of this email isn't setting off like a hundred bells in your head, watch this video before reading on.

http://youtube.com/watch?v=VCcLZUT81Lw

If you have a bad connection, just know that he is an awesome firespinner.

I MET HIM TONIGHT!!!!!!!! I met the one and only Yuta!! WOOHOO!!!!!!! I traveled to Yoyogi Park today around 4, hoping to be there when it got dark so people like this would be easy to pick out.

On the train, I noticed that there were a lot more teenagers with crazy hair and flashy outfits, which I was prepared for. When I got off the train and found the entrance to the park, the first thing I saw was a contact juggler (see picture album). He/she (I couldn't tell) was pretty good and was my first indication that I was in the right place. I debated sticking around in the hope that this person would eventually find Yuta for me. I decided to venture into the park myself and see what else was there.

I ventured down a dirt and stone road through the park. That's when I saw the giant entryway (also pictured). I circled the park on these paths and realized that there were no clearings for firespinners to gather in. So I was about to turn around and find that contact juggler again when I heard drums.

The sound of the drums took me the rest of the way around the park and out the way I had come in. They were coming from one of the other entrances. I circled the park and found the massive clearing with the fountains. It was so beautiful, I got there just as the sun was setting and I knew that if the firspinners meet at all in this park, this would be the place. All I had to do was wait. So I went to check out who else was there.

I saw the drummers, the street performers, the group with "Free Hugs" signs (about 5 of them), and the four guys practicing bartending tricks. I saw a couple of stray poi spinners and got pretty excited, but I could tell by there level of skill that they hadn't crossed into firespinning yet.

Around 6 I was getting hungry, so I headed for a food stand I saw on my way in. That's when I saw him. A solitary poi spinner just practicing his basics. The only thing was, his basics were things I had just learned last month! I sat down with my camera and watched him as closely as I could without disturbing him. After about 10 minutes, I could have packed up and left and it would have been worthwhile, but I wanted to meet him.

I walked up to him and asked if I could try a bit. Of course, that was after I managed to tell him how skillful I thought he was. Then he handed me his poi and sat down to watch. Needless to say, he was a bit surprised that I was not a novice, BUT I WAS SPINNING WITH YUTA'S POI!

We talked for a bit after his friends showed up. They're just like the people at Wildfire. One of them promptly got a incense massage after he sat down. Yuta's English is amazing. He invited me to an event that I already knew about and then told me that he was usually the only spinner that goes to Yoyogi on weekends. But then he gave me the website of the groups in Shinjuku and Shibuya, who meet on tuesdays. It requires further research, but I've made contact with the firespinning community on Japan! YAY!
