---
title: An Ok Day
category: japan
---
I've finally decided to drop that Philosophy class, and opted for a religion class with a little more history class in it. I've gotten approval from Fairfield, so the new course will be accepted as credit (only if I pass, of course) and I've gotten the teacher to sign a class drop form. Now all that's left is to have the new teacher sign an addition form and figure out where to hand in all these forms.

Had my second ballroom meeting tonight. We did cha-cha, rumba, and waltz. Again, they're only teaching us choreographed stuff, but the people are nice and not all of them know English (which is a good thing, I need the practice). The unfortunate part is that for the rest of the week, I'll have nothing scheduled after 10:45 in the morning. Oh what to do, what to do. I still need to go pick up my alien registration card. It's ready for me and once I have it, I'll be able to leave my passport safely locked away in my room. The Judo club meets Wed and Fri nights (as well as Mon and Tues). And there's always studying.

I finished reading the Prestige today, and those of you who've seen the movie will be glad to know they do eachother justice, and the stories are sufficiently different to warrent reading/watching both of them.

Can't wait for Golden Week. A five-day-long holiday at the beginning of next month loaded with holidays. The ballroom club's going bowling, and (more relevant to my interests) Yuta's fire festival is happening. I'm so excited!
