---
title: Stormblood
category: gaming
---
I always thought I would be a one-and-done kind of guy when it came to MMORPGs. I was a die-hard Final Fantasy XIV player when 2.0 came out and the entire game was basically rewritten from scratch. I spent 2-3 years wandering around Eorzea killing monsters, watching the rise and fall of guilds, and powering through all the balancing updates. Then I just...stopped. My latest static group had just broken up and I had lost interest in most of the world. I was no longer getting anything out of it except the gear treadmill and although that held my attention for a while longer, I eventually lost interest and stopped playing.

I used my free time to start going through my Steam library and other games. I got into Dark Souls, which is kind of MMO-y. I found more indie games like Titan Souls, Ori, and Dark Echo. I played Rocket League for a little while. Then Blizzard released the original Starcraft for free and I went from that to Starcraft II. River City Ransom Underground came out. By then the MMO itch was starting to bother me again. I didn't want to spend money to try out a new MMO, so I downloaded Tera instead. I played enough to get into my first dungeon and I hated it. I went to Rift instead, which I heard was more WoW-like, which I appreciated. But that didn't do it for me either.

So, I'm back at it again. I put down $39.99 and bought Stormblood, the latest FFXIV Expansion, re-upped my subscription, and logged back in. Half of my abilities had been removed as part of the re-balancing from the expansion and I almost have to re-learn how to play my best classes. It didn't help that the night I tried to log in, the servers were under a DDoS attack. The lag almost put me off completely. I thought my old computer couldn't handle it anymore until I went on the subreddit and saw what was happening.

I haven't told my old guild that I'm back yet. I did check out their forums and saw that a number of old veterans were making the return trip just like I am. My plan right now when I have downtime and don't want to explore the new stuff anymore, is to sit outside their house until someone recognizes me.

However, one of the other things I've done since quitting is have a child. I've done a decent job squeezing in some time for gaming in between parenting, but it means that I've had to be chosey with my games. I've had to pick things that I can either pause or quit very easily. No one cares if you leave a quick-play Rocket League match because you are replaced by a bot. I know Dark Souls III well enough to know where the safe spots are and not mind if I get destroyed because my kid starts crying in the middle of a boss fight or something. FFXIV is going to be completely different. I'm pretty much restricted to playing when my child is asleep. At least until he gets old enough to entertain himself for long periods of time. I'm at least glad that we moved his bedtime up so me and the wife can get some alone time or I can go game.