---
title: Ableism
category: rant
---
Serious topic here. I don't think I understand ableism. I have trouble seeing what's wrong with it. That might be because my definition of it is too broad. Maybe if I write about it here, I can clear some of it up for myself.

Wikipedia defines ableism as "discrimination and social prejudice against people with disabilities." The article doesn't get any more specific then this, so I'm having trouble inferring anything specific. The fact is, there are some things that disabled people just can't do. There are many more things that a disabled person can't do as well as an abled person.

So, here are some things that seem to fall under the definition of ableism that I definitely agree are wrong and should not be done. Scorning, yelling, or putting down a disabled person you pass on the street or encounter on the subway is wrong. Yelling at someone to "hurry up" if they are having trouble getting their wheelchair up the curb. Denying someone an intellectual-based job when the only thing wrong with them is that they're missing an arm and an eye or some other physical disability. Denying someone a place on your weight-lifting team because they have dyscalculia. All of these are wrong, but all of them also share one thing in common. They are all discriminating against someone for something different about them that has no bearing on the current situation, the task they are trying to accomplish, or any perceived effect they have on the observer.

Now, here are some things that seem to fall under the definition of ableism that I find nothing wrong with. Denying someone a job at an accounting firm because they have dyscalculia. If you don't understand numbers, how do you expect to get a job as an accountant? Denying someone a place on my weight-lifting team if they have Osteogenesis Imperfecta (the disease that weakens your bones). If you're going to get hurt weight-lifting, you shouldn't be on a competitive team. Denying someone a customer service position if they have crippling social anxiety. If you can't handle high-pressure social situations, you're going to lose the company money and shouldn't be working there. Designing a puzzle in a game, and then being accused of ableism because your puzzle requires the person to be good with numbers and letters. I saw a forum thread on this a couple months ago where a person who claimed to have both dyslexia and dyscalculia was accusing the developers of a game of ableism because they required that the player solve a puzzle like this as part of their latest event questline. I don't think that is ableism. I think that person is a whiny excuse for a player who saw something he couldn't overcome on his own at first, refused to seek help and refused to use alternate means to overcome it. Maybe he couldn't overcome it, assuming his disabilities are that severe, but he definitely could have asked for help, either from other players or from the internet. Solutions to the puzzle were online everywhere within hours of the event going live. Continuing the video game example, denying someone a place on your raid team because they aren't good enough at playing the game. This is completely fine in my book. If someone isn't doing enough damage or has trouble keeping everyone healed, then you are completely justified in replacing them. Now, I do believe it would be completely wrong to torture them, make fun of them, or tell them to quit playing the game entirely. Again, I have formed a group with some like-minded individuals who want to accomplish some goal and require a certain level of skill from everyone in the group in order to get there. If you aren't good enough, then we won't accomplish our goals and you should be dropped. If you demonstrate that you can practice and get better, that's different. If you *can't* get better, goodbye. I won't tell you to quit the game, but I don't want you on my team either. I'll see you in the casual runs.

I suppose in a lot of these, the pattern is this: a group of people agree to connect with each other, they assume a certain level of skill exists in everyone in the group, they meet so they can use these skills to accomplish goals, and they deny entry to anyone who doesn't meet this level of skill that the group has decided is a requirement in order accomplish the goals. I see absolutely nothing wrong with any of that. But everything I've read seems like it would call that ableism. If I coached Little League Baseball, I would have no problem allowing a child with Down Syndrome on to my team assuming I could teach him/her to play somewhat adequately. The goal there is to teach kids teamwork, physical coordination, the joy of winning, and the pain of losing. Whether or not you can do those things when you start has no bearing on my effort to teach them to you. But if that child breaks his leg, there's no way I'm putting him in the care of a doctor with Down Syndrome until I can see proof that he/she was smart enough and dedicated enough to actually graduate medical school. Even if that proof is just that his/her staff call him/her "Doctor" and he/she comes recommended by some people in my social circles. I would require at least that of any doctor.

Well, I don't understand ableism any better after having written all of that. I'm still not sure if I'm guilty of it. I don't want to be, but it's almost a label on nothing. Something that may or may not apply to me and I wouldn't know what to fix. And if all of those situations I consider not to be ableism are actually ableism, I'm not sure I'd be able to change.