---
title: Archived
category: general
---
I discovered that my old blog was still up and running despite the fact that I haven't written in there for almost 3 years. I dumped a backup of all the posts and found a quick Node script to convert them all into markdown files so that I could put them up here. Suddenly, my post history has doubled in length and I now "own" the record of development for those years. It boggles the mind to see how far I've come since then, although the production quality of my games doesn't seem to have gone up all that much. My determination and understanding of the scope of projects I can accomplish has gone up.

It's an interesting feeling, looking through your old projects. I almost can't believe I've been in this game for almost 15 years. I went back and rewrote the About Me page on this site to have a more complete timeline of my game development progress. When I really thought back to the first game I made, I was shocked that it was in 2003. I almost got really depressed, thinking about how long it's been and whether I've come far enough in that amount of time. I realized two things. One is that I'm a hobbiest developer who has a pretty rich life outside of programming, so of course I'm not going to grow as fast as someone who is building a game every day. I'm still programming in some capacity every day though, so there is that. The other is that I actually *have* come really far in 15 years. I haven't sold anything, but I'm proud of what I've built so far.

I've also downloaded a dump of all the images I used in my old blog. I probably won't ever migrate them to this blog, but it's nice to be able to look back on all the old screenshots. I did use a couple of those images to update my Games page with better images. All I had for a couple of them were the thumbnails I uploaded to the 1GAM site way back when. The games page looks a little better now.