---
title: Bored Again
category: general
---
I'm just about finished with the big personal web project that's kept me busy for the past 2 months or so. I'm waiting for one more round of feedback from those that I believe can be my harshest critics. They're very set in their ways and probably will have a lot to say about the changes I've been making. But it's all for the good of the making a site mobile-friendly. I definitely learned a lot during this leg of the project. I worked through some issues with Bootstrap, got to cleanup a whole lot of old code, and switched to using Atom over Zend Studio. I briefly tried to set up this site to run through Zend Server, but the UI for Zend was just so clunky. I couldn't locate where to set up a database (probably because it doesn't come with one ready to go), and I couldn't figure out how to localize certain pieces of the site. You see, parts of the site rely on a sister site running phpBB on the same domain, and I ran into too high of a wall to justify spending the time to get it running locally. I don't need to run my own code locally very much with this project anyway. It's too simple to bother. I would like to set up logging at some point though. We don't get very many errors while people are using the site, but it'd help out during development certainly.

All the important stuff our site does is off-loaded to another service anyway. We're mostly just an information dump and a place to apply for special events. But now you can see us on MOBILE!!! Hooray!!!

Also, I've grown to really like Atom. I don't use very many of its advanced features. I'm sure the PHP Linter and HTML Beautifier would have helped a little if I had used them. But I'm definitely getting use out of the File Symbol Browser and the Minifiers. And I use the Atom Build package in almost all of my other projects. I tried out Visual Studio Code a little today, but I made the mistake of opening one of my professional projects in it and opening the source control window, which threw out all of my project's TFS source control bindings and replaced them with Git, pretty well corrupting my project temporarily. Fortunately, I had no pending changes left.

Seems like Microsoft is moving more toward Git integration. Most of their Visual Studio versions come with it out of the box, even VS Professional. I don't mind Git for simple projects, but I don't think I could live without TFS or Subversion's ability to merge specific changesets between branches. Maybe if I switched my workflow to only using feature branches and breaking things up into small enough chunks that merge conflicts are no longer a thing, it'd be better. But I so often work on a project where we undertake some massive refactoring or adding documentations to everything that it's harder to merge things without conflicts. And I hated how Git handles (or rather, doesn't handle) merge conflicts. It marks the conflicts with text and expects you to manually modify things yourself. Although, I ran into my first conflict after switching to Atom last week, and it was nicely highlighted with options to use HEAD or use SERVER (or whatever it was).

More and more, I regret not already being involved in an open source community or having more programmer friends. I'd like to be part of an open source project team somewhere. But I'm held back by feelings of not being a good enough programmer, not knowing how to get started, and not using open source software in my normal life. Most of what I've read about how to get started contributing to open source usually includes trying to add a feature you need to a program that you use. I've even tried browsing for interesting projects, but I have no idea what I'm looking for. Maybe I'll give it another shot when I'm bored at home again.