---
title: Public Design Chops
category: web development
---
I remembered only a little while ago that GitHub Pages (which powers this website) also lets you host sites for all your projects, not just for your personal repository. So, I've enabled my designer website for public use and criticism in the form of [Pork Bowl Con](/Pork-Bowl-Con). Come check it out and see where I'm starting at.

All I really have right now is the home page with news items and the Registration page. The rest of the pages are just placeholders. I have a basic color scheme and some images, but that's about it. I've kind of hit a roadblock with it creatively. The basic design is there, so what I probably need to do is send it to some of my UX Designer friends and see if they can tear it apart. Which they will, I have no doubt of that. They'll probably tell me my color scheme sucks and that my site isn't interesting in the slightest. The only thing I can think of right now that would make the site more interesting would be a graphic of the convention mascot or a more exciting and louder logo. But alas, I am not an artist at all. We'll see what they say when I release this over the weekend. That'll probably give me the inspiration I need to improve.

In the meantime, I've gotten sick of waiting for another game type to come out, so I've started my own. I've been wanting to play a simple adventure game involving a wizard with access to a giant plethroa of spells that are graphically pleasing. Something kind of like Torchlight or Magika. So I've started work on the first Blue Shape Adventures game. I've always started my games with a blue shape of programmer art for the main character. Often enough that I considered renaming this blog to Blue Box Studios. So anyway, I'm working on a top-down dungeon-crawler or Zelda-esk (haven't decided yet) game about a wizard with 4 spells that all use interesting particle effects. This will also be the first game I've built with controller support. I'm really excited about being able to play this in my living room on my Steam box. Although, it's been a couple weeks now where I haven't done any work on it. Having a newborn kid takes up a lot of your time when it's awake demanding to be entertained all the time. Not that I mind, I love the kid a lot, but sometimes I miss my free time.

I also updated the Projects page to include the link to Pork Bowl Con and updated all the links so that none of my projects are hosted on MediaFire anymore. They're all using GitHub's "Releases" feature.