---
title: Old Attempts
category: web development
---
Trying out simple web dev using Atom this time. The interface is slicker, but I miss my file explorer plugin that let me open folders anywhere. I'd rather not force Atom to index my entire hard drive, thank you very much. And ooooooooo, it's actually word-wrapping this particular file. I wonder if it's tied to the file type.

Anyway, I was wandering through some of my archives and found an old website that I designed for an HTML5 course I took through work a few years ago. In typical learning fashion, we had to build a simple website that used a bunch of the "new" HTML5 features. I fell upon a pretty good idea to make a website for my old fire performance troupe. The troupe was technically still in business, but we didn't have insurance when we were doing gigs, which was always an issue. We had some fun and made a little money, but none of our hearts were in it. Mostly because all we wanted to do was perform and not deal with the nuances of getting insurance, haggling with the customer, or the potential risk to strangers. So we mostly stuck to performing for friends. I used that as a springboard idea for my HTML5 website and what came out turned out to look pretty cool. I'm not too fond of the name we eventually decided on, but I loved working with our chosen colors on this [website](/Firejive). I even did my first bit of photoshop work on the banner: finding a fairly generic picture of fire and color-shifting it to blue. I was proud of that.

The site isn't mobile friendly and doesn't use any stock CSS libraries like Bootstrap or Materialize. It's how most of my older websites used to look after I discovered that most navigation menus are made of up li items instead of tables. I think this was the last website I built before I started using responsive design CSS libraries. Of course, my websites are MUCH better now. I still like having my older projects around. I still have all the little Java games I built when I was bored at my last job. I was really proud of the fact that I could flip a switch one way and compile a stand-alone JAR executable, and flip it the other way and compile a Java Applet that could be run in the browser. My very first website had a big collection of applet games I had built. I'm not sure if I can compile them anymore, but they're sitting in my project archives somewhere.