---
title: Multiplayer
category: game development
---
I successfully built a multiplayer game prototype!! I followed [this](https://code.tutsplus.com/tutorials/create-a-multiplayer-pirate-shooter-game-in-your-browser--cms-23311) tutorial, but managed to extend it a little to give each player their own ship and health and a death state. It was hard to debug by myself, but I'm starting to like working with Phaser. Most of the work on this was done for me already. The tutorial provides you with the entire single-player version of the game and just shows you how to add multiplayer to this dumb little arcade game. But I think this was a huge step forward for me. I had never worked with Socket.io before, and it was much easier than I thought it would be. Granted, this game was about as simple as you could possibly get, but the fact that I was able to play this game with someone half a state away felt fantastic.

The downside is that I won't be able to publish this game here alongside my other sites. Since I don't have a server to run things on. Github Pages will really only be good for the single-player games I've normally been building, just in the browser. This is great though! I finally have an engine that will work with virtually nothing. It requires downloading nothing that isn't already on most computers. I don't have to worry about any sort of virus handling or restricted software problems deleting my libraries. And I can still work on this anywhere. Now all I need is a better concept. Now that I'm gaining experience with this library, I can think about embedding little games in my other projects. Phaser is a decently large .js file, so I'll have to do something about that. CDN seems to be the way to go with that.

But what to do for my first project. The theme that I would go with for this year is "outer space." Of course, the first thing that comes to mind is a space-themed shmup. That might be a good start for my first Phaser project. It's simple enough to code and doesn't require any complicated physics at all. Move the ship around, restrict them to the window. No camera to speak of. Just a moving background and a timeline dictating enemy appearance. Maybe I can create the clone of that giraffe game I discovered a couple years ago. Something high-energy and goofy. Something where I can finally use some of that HV music I've been hanging on to in the hopes that I'd be able to use it in an anti-gravity racing game.