---
title: How's the Weather
category: web development
---
I've reached the point with Hive Weather where I have to come up with the CSS animations for the weather icons. This was half of the point why I picked this to be my next project. The other half was to get experience working with an API that I have no control over. Now I just don't know where to start. Maybe I have to let this stagnate for a while and go through a few CSS Animation tutorials. I found a few CodePens for animated weather icons, but I have no idea what I'm looking at. They seem to make gratuitous use of box-shadow, but I can't see it in the icons. I tried copying the relevant parts of the pen into my application, and I got the animations and colors right, but none of the shapes came in. The sun and the cloud look fine, but the raindrops are just boxes. Not to mention that just opening the site slows down my entire computer. I have no idea why that happens. Well, now I know that it's not just me. The animations from teh pen slow down my computer as well. Maybe css animations aren't the way to go with something as complicated as the weather. Maybe it'll be enough to just animate the icon appearing and use one of the icon sets from Weather Underground instead. I could also try adding an animated CSS loading spinner or some other cool effect. I'll see what comes out of the tutorials, but I get the feeling that CSS animations were never meant for something this complicated that's constantly on the page. It was meant for loading spinners, progress bars, and quick site interaction stuff like pages coming down from the server or images in a slideshow.

So let's see where my tutorials take me.