---
title: Death in the Family
category: general
---
Man, I'm writing in here a lot this past week.

We went through a bad time yesterday. When I first met my wife, she had a miniature dachshund who had just turned 1 or 2. He was a little ball of annoying love and while he got on our nerves quite often, we still loved him. He was very lethargic earlier this week, to the point of letting my son do things to him that he would never normally let him do, like yank on his ears. My wife took him to the vet and they found a shadow in his abdomen. They recommended we take him to an actual animal hospital for an ultrasound and they identified the shadow as a tumor. The damn thing was 1/3 the side of my puppy's body, and had enveloped his liver. We gave consent to put him in surgery that night and they went to work on him the next morning. By then, he was a little more energetic and we were hopeful. When they opened him up, they found that the tumor had also adhered to his appendix, part of his stomach, and a lot of blood vessels. We couldn't do it. The risk was too great. We had to let our puppy go. After it was over, the surgeon did a little more exploring and saw that the tumor had actually started to get inside his circulatory system, rather than just attach to it. They determined that even if we did decide to try and take it out, it wouldn't have worked. There would have been too much bleeding.

I've known and loved this dog as long as I've known and loved my wife. He's been as much a part of my family as she has. I regret all the times I punished him for pooping or peeing inside, when all along, it was probably this stupid thing putting pressure on his bladder and slowly killing him. We had taken him in to the vet a couple years ago after he had eaten most of his bed. The vet said the x-ray showed he had a swollen stomach, but the medication they gave him to induce vomiting didn't work at all. We still blamed it on IBS and switched him to a hypoallergenic food. I feel like that was our one chance to catch this before it became too much to handle. But what was I supposed to do? Yell at the vet to cut my dog open just so we could see whether the mass was actually his stomach? We were always able to attribute his stomach problems to something else. He ate part of his bed. We just switched his food and now he has to get used to it. We're getting near the end of our food supply, so what he's eating now is old and maybe stale. It thundered last night so he didn't sleep at all. This last time he had actually eaten part of my son's used diaper. So many things in the past 3-4 years can be attributed to this stupid tumor. The vet also said that if we hadn't brought him in for surgery, he likely would have died before the end of the week. Since the tumor had invaded his blood vessels, he had started bleeding internally. It came on so suddenly that we didn't even have a real chance to say goodbye.

I've outlived two other dogs so far, but I was much younger then and probably didn't fully understand what had happened with the first one. And for the second, I was midway through college and didn't think of her nearly as much as I did this one. This is also the first death that my wife and I fully shared. We've both had family members die since we met and started dating, and they always hurt, but they were always more on one side of us or the other. We're dealing with it as well as can be expected, but that might be mostly due to the really good support network we have. The outpouring of good wishes from family and friends made us cry almost as much as the grief did.

I'm never going to forget this puppy. How much he loved sleeping inside my bathrobe while I would play games. How many times he would retreat into my lap to get away from the dreaded hardwood floor. The way he loved carpet as only a puppy could (mostly by peeing on it). The boundless energy he would expend by suddenly deciding to run laps around the house. His dislike for outdoors. His refusal to understand any traditional doggy games like tug or fetch. How good he was at alerting us whenever someone was approaching our door, friend or stranger. How he would immediately stop barking at you as soon as you were down on the floor at his level. I think most of all, I'll remember how much he loved to cuddle. Whenever we or the dog would have a bad day, our ultimate comfort was to let the dog sleep in bed with us. He would spend the first half hour or so licking our feet and legs, then he would curl up against one of us and spend the night there. According to my wife, dachshunds typically don't bond with more than one human. And yet, I remember when he gave the best signal that he had accepted me as part of the family. We had let him sleep with us and I woke up to him snuggled against my back. I moved enough away from him that we weren't touching anymore, and I heard a little grumble and felt him snuggle up against me again. It about broke my heart and I knew that I loved this dog and that he loved me.

RIP 2017
Oy (of Mid-World)