---
title: Game Off 2017
category: game development
---
I just finished my project for the [2017 GitHub Game Off](https://itch.io/jam/game-off-2017). The theme this year was "throwback." That immediately set me thinking of how to implement a "throw it back" mechanic. At first, I thought a restaurant setting would work. Maybe I could do something like Burger Time, where something is throwing burger ingredients at you, and you have to assemble them and throw them back. I couldn't wrap my head around that to the point where I could build a game out of it, so I toned it back to the more obvious mechanic of catching bullets and throwing them back at enemies. I went with space as a setting because it was simple and because KenneyNL has a really good space sprite and effect pack on [OpenGameArt.org](https://opengameart.org/content/space-shooter-redux). I only picked out a couple of sprites, but doing it this way let me completely recreate the feeling I had during Global Game Jam 2013 where we added the background and basic sprites to our game and suddenly felt like we were actually working on a game instead of a tech demo.

This is also the first game I've made that features music from [Heaven Variant](https://jasonkoohi.bandcamp.com/album/heaven-variant-soundtrack), an unreleased 2D shooter by Jason Koohi and the team at Zanrai. The game itself was dropped, but the soundtrack was completed and put up for sale. When I demoed this game after putting in the music, my playtesters said it was a completely different experience.

The most interesting problem I tackled was coding the boss's movement. The boss has 4 (technically 5, if you count the entrance) movement patterns. This was the first time I utilized tweening and keyframes in any of my games. Having to code the lerp function and have it change properly at each state of the movement was an interesting issue. I ended up cheating a little and making sure that each state of the movement lasted the same amount of time as other stages. For instance, when the boss is in its "bomb" firing pattern, it first moves forward slightly, then moves around the screen in a diamond pattern, then moves back up to its starting location. In total, that's six different stages of movement. So I divided the total amount of time I wanted the maneuver to take by 6 and subtracted fractions of the total amount of time from the amount of time that had passed since the maneuver had begun. That gave me my start and end time that I could pass into the lerp function and get the effect I wanted. Once I managed to wrap my head around the time fractions and their progression, it was reasonably easy to come up with maneuvers, so long as the boss only moved in straight lines. The lerp function to make it move along a curve would be completely different (not linear at all).

Another thing that made this project new and different was that it was the first time I developed without fear of not getting things right the first time (I deal with this enough at work). A long time ago, I started making a platformer that was supposed to take place in a world where reality was warping. I got part way through the first stage when I realized I needed to put dialog into the game to move the story along. I froze up trying to figure out how to get my player to switch modes so they wouldn't move while the dialog was progressing. I ran into what could have been a similar roadblock with this game when I wanted to make the boss have the same firing patterns as you. I would have to grossly refactor the bullet and bullet-pickup classes in order to make them work, or so I thought. Once I just started coding and didn't worry about making everything as clean and separated as possible, I discovered it was a lot easier to get through it. So I've definitely grown as a developer since starting this hobby.

The last thing that made this project new and different is that its the first project I've built that has controller support. As soon as I was done tweaking the game's balance, I copied the x86 version to the media center in my living room and fired it up to see how it worked in there. Playing a game I built on our primary gaming machine was an amazing feeling. Once I beat the game, I let the credits sit there for a few minutes and did a happy dance to the credits song.

I built this game using [LÖVE](https://love2d.org/). LÖVE has definitely settled into its place as my favorite gamedev library. It lends itself really well to these sort of simple arcade games.

Download the game for free from my [Itch.io project page](https://joedono.itch.io/game-off-2017-in-space). Read through the development on the [GitHub Project Page](https://github.com/joedono/Game-Off-2017).