---
title: Many Updates
category: gaming
---
Sooooooo many updates to talk about.

My decade-old computer finally crapped out. I'm about 85% certain it was the motherboard. When I turned it on, the power supply would feed power to the fans and lights, but I wouldn't get any diagnostic beep and nothing connected to the computer would turn on or get any signals. It was time to get a new one. I did a bit of research, but soon discovered that even the cheapest computer available would be an upgrade from what I had. And since my computer was already running everything I wanted at a reasonable quality, things could only get better from there. I got a CyperPowerPC Gaming Desktop from Amazon and managed to hook up my old harddrive to it and get everything off of it. There have been so many differences. All my favorite games now run at 60fps at their highest quality without my computer sounding like a jet engine. I no longer have to turn on my computer, and then take my time making breakfast to give it time to boot up. It boots in less than 10 seconds. Hell, it boots in less than 5. I've never seen FFXIV and Dark Souls 3 look so good.

I've picked up Subnautica. After watching Markiplier's Let's Play series about it, I thought it included just enough structure and story to get me into the survival crafting adventure genre. I had tried Don't Starve and Minecraft, but Minecraft didn't have enough to it that I could tackle enjoyably without friends to play with, and after I survivied my first winter, I didn't have any motivation to play Don't Starve anymore. I'm about ready to build my first room in Subnautica, and I've already had a couple scary encounters with the fauna. The Crashfish were already terrifying right out of the gate, and I was so excited to put on my radiation suit and try to get into the Aurora before remembering that several Reaper Leviathans make it their home. I had a couple long-distance encounters, which weren't too bad. But when I was in the middle of exploring a small wreck, I exited to find that a reaper leviathan was trying to snack on the wreck. I could have reached out and touched the darn thing. I switched to my seaglide and boogied right out of there. I'm surprised he didn't chase me more. I haven't made it to very many other scary areas. I dove a little into the cave with the pink mushrooms and spent some time in the crag fields, but I don't have any upgrades for my seamoth just yet, so I can't go very far. The next thing I'm going to do is head for the Sunbeam meeting point and see what's there. I was surprised to get distress calls from downed lifepods after I repaired my radio. That wasn't in the Let's Play and it's a nice way of pointing out blueprint caches to the player. Unfortunately, I can't run Subnautica on my media center with controller support. I can stream it from my new desktop, but for some reason, the controller inputs won't go through the media center to the server machine. My controller is a cheap little thing, so I'm not confident that I could use the one sending signals straight to my desktop from the living room. At some point, I'm going to try Dark Souls 3 this way. I think the controller worked as it was supposed to when I tried that. If that doesn't work, I'm going to have to either find something else to play when I can't sit in my office, or reformat the media center with a 64bit copy of Windows.