---
title: Under the Sea
category: gaming
---
It is most certainly *not* better down where its wetter. Although I have been spending an awful lot of time under the deep blue sea in Subnautica. I think I've about reached the halfway point in the game's story and exploration. I've pretty much found almost everything in the surface biomes and have started dabbling in the underground areas. Since I haven't built a compass, I found the cheapest way I could possibly build a base with power, food, water, and a beacon and I set out to create little staging points throughout the map. They each cost 20 Titanium, 1 Lubricant, 1 Glass, 2 Copper, and some Marblemelon seeds. That's enough to build one foundation, a multi-purpose room, a hatch, an interior growbed, a bioreactor, and a beacon. You can catch some local fauna to put in the reactor or you can bring some whole Marblemelon with you. With all this, you have a small outpost you can always find that has power, food, and water for emergencies. I only hope that the developers don't put in power degredation. You know? Running power to keep the lights on and the slow natural reactions that happen to batteries when they're not being used? I keep expecting to come back to base or my Cyclops and find that the power has drained while I've been away. But now, I'm now never more than 1200 meters away from a base, so long as I stay on the surface. I found a couple entrances to the Lost River, and that's my next goal.

I did find an abandoned base somewhere purple-ish and surrounded by Warpers and Crabsquids. I thought it was the Koosh Zone, but I went back there and there aren't really any caves there. The next idea is the Grand Reef, which I seem to be spending an awful lot of time in. Possibly at the expense of other biomes. Oh! Maybe the base is in the northern Blood Kelp zone. I stumbled over that when I was looking for another Lost River entrance in the Dunes, but that matches what I've seen before. And according to the map I've been looking at, both entrances to the Lost River are in the Blood Kelp zones and the northern zone is a lot bigger than I thought it was. I found what I needed for some of the advanced materials in there, so it's looking like exploring Blood Kelp should be next on my todo list. Although now that I've found two entrances to the Lost River, I could just go straight there too. I need to go farm some materials for bases though, as I'm out of Titanium. Looks like I'm in for a trip to the Crash Zone for salvage. I think I picked up everything in the other biomes.

I haven't had too many crazy experiences since that first encounter with a Reaper. I did find my first Mesmer yesterday. It tried to catch me, but it is surprisingly easy to escape them. You just have to look away first rather than trying to move away. I even swam right up to it to try and get it to bite so I could see the animation, and I actually had enough time to scan it before it noticed and attacked me. The same thing happened a while ago with a Reaper too. I wanted to conquer my fear and get caught on purpose. I was able to swim alongside it for a good long while before it turned to munch on me. Couldn't scan it though. You apparently have to scan its head. It seems like the aggresive fish won't attack you right away if you try to provoke them, only if you try to avoid them. I suppose that makes sense. You're not meant to get right up in their faces. They're meant to get up in your's. I discovered the Sea Treader Path completely by accident. That's a spooky place. The PDA mentions that frequent migrations have cause there to be almost no vegetation in the entire zone, and it's not kidding. The floor is almost completely barren of anything except Sea Treader poop (which is hilarious in its own right).

Let's see, what else has happened? I built an aquarium and put a few of the weirder looking eggs in it. They hatched into a Rabbit Ray, a Crashfish, and a Stalker. So I was finally able to scan the latter two without them trying to kill me. I finally found the blueprints for the Modification Station and started working on the Mk2 depth upgrades. I had my first flooded base incident. It happened to one of my outposts while I was away. I went in hoping for some quick food and a checkup, and the room was full of water. There was only one leak and power was still running, so it wasn't that bad. Just a cool thing that happened. I found a big crater in the Dunes with a Precursor data cache in it. That was interesting.

I tried out creative mode too. Just to see what the bottom of the Dead Zone looked like and how quickly I could get to the Research and Containment Facility without having to work through the tech tree or worry about food and water. I found the unfinished area pretty quickly and swam around down there for a bit, and it was surprisingly quick to get to the Lava Lakes and the facility. I imagine it's going to be a lot harder if I have to pilot my Cyclops down there and deal with the energy leeches and leviathans. I built a base just outside the facility for giggles.

I wish I knew where to find the Stillsuit blueprints though. I'm still wearing my radiation suit...