---
title: Back to Work
category: general
---
This is my first week back at my full-time job since my son entered the world. I've been decently productive and I've been avoiding making too many decisions so far. Many people are glad to have me back. I was a little worried when I didn't get too many calls or anything asking for my input while I was gone. But I came back to a boatload of stuff and a whole new workflow to replace what I used to do. I'm still not entirely comfortable in my role. I'm scared of making code changes because I don't want to ruin something the off-shore team is putting together. I just can't seem to trust that they have all their work committed at the end of the day, so I don't have to worry about merge conflicts if I go on a massive refactoring spree. The back-end portion of the code is reasonable well put together, but I have a lot more faith in the back-end devs that are working on it. So it's just the higher level decisions that I have to give input on and coordinating dependencies with other teams here in the office.

I made a big mistake last night. I got over-confident and let my wife sleep the entire night while I got up every shift to take care of our son. I should have poked her for the 5:00am shift, but I felt really good at the time, so I woke up and took care of it. I think the night did her some good at least, so maybe I can sleep a little more tonight. I'm going to be completely wiped after volleyball tonight, so I hope I don't have to do very much.

I've discovered that Rocket League is a much better game to play in small chunks than Overwatch. A typical match in Overwatch can last up to 20 minutes, and leaving in the middle of one will get you an experience point penalty for a few matches. I don't care a whole lot about that, but having that red alert all over my screen is annoying. Rocket League just replaces you with a bot as soon as you leave a match. And matches are fixed at 5 minutes excluding overtime, which is only a minute anyway. It's also far less complicated than Overwatch.

I attempted to get into Farcry 3 and Saint's Row 4, but neither of them are really holding my interest. I'm discovering that I don't really like the sandbox games. I've already uninstalled The Witcher 3 from my normal desktop, since it's been a really long time since I played it. There's either too much to do, or not enough. And all of it is fluff content anyway. Why would I really want to waste time playing a flying mini-game in Saint's Row 4 when the entire game is about stomping aliens. There's no point to it. I'm not the completionist I used to be when I played Prototype and Assasin's Creed 2. It just isn't in me anymore. Call it a consequence of getting older.

I'm still thinking about whether there's anything I can do to put my skills to use outside of work, but I keep coming up empty. It seems that, when I'm not actively working with something, I try to think about how to do something and come up empty. When I'm not coding, it's like I don't know how to code. It's very hard to explain. This little website and my one volunteer project are really the only things that I do, and they aren't even that complicated. I just wish I had something more to do.

My manager asked us to rewrite our reviews, specifically what we thought our areas for improvement were. I had a lot of trouble figuring that one out, mostly because I don't really know where I want to go from here. When I started on this career, all I really wanted was to be tech lead. I didn't see myself in any sort of management role after that because I don't think anything exists between there and CTO, and I certainly don't want to be CTO. I want to ask my manager during my review what my next step could be. I really don't know what's there.