---
title: New Life
category: general
---
I've accomplished probably what is the most earth-shattering life milestone of my natural life. I have created life. My son was recently born. This probably means that this blog will turn into a psuedo-parenting blog as well as the musings of an independent developer. I've been finding that I've been developing on personal projects less and less. I just don't have any ideas. I also don't really have much motivation since I develop full-time as a career anyway.

Drifting off-topic, having a kid is already hard. I had to watch my wife pretty much destroy herself having this child and recovering from it after the deed was done. It ranks among the hardest things I've ever had to do. And now that the kid is in our lives, I have to contend with that. I'm realizing that there are is a lot of material out there for how to handle a child after their first few months and there's a lot of material out there for the mother. But there is almost nothing out there for surviving the first month and only a little more geared towards the father. We've been almost completely lost during this first month, mostly because of the sleep deprivation. We're constantly wondering how what we're doing will affect the kid in the future and how it will affect us. We're wondering how early we can start sleep-training so that we can survive the nights.

I've done a little more reading than I did before my kid was born. Every story is different. Some have no issues putting their kid to bed. Others suffer through endless crying. I just wish my child would hurry up and start reacting to stuff. He's little more than a potato that eats and makes messes. I didn't even know that this stage of development existed. I've never seen a baby up close that was at this stage. I just want him to smile at me and react to my mannerisms, maybe giggle a little.

He's only three weeks old, but it feels like it's been an eternity. Other parents I've talked to have said that the first month and the early childhood just fly by. Honestly, this couldn't be over fast enough. I never thought I would miss getting a complete night's sleep so much, but I'm so irritable I could cry. I just want this stage to be over. 6 Weeks Old can't get here fast enough.