---
title: Ending in Sight
category: general
---
I'm still not entirely sold on VS Code yet. I think it has better extension management tools, mostly because it's a top-level menu option. I also like that the Git integration is another top-level menu option, so I don't have to look at a shortcut window to remember that I've changed something already.

The states are starting to lift their stay-at-home orders over the next couple weeks (May 20th is the official date for our state). The people in the scientific and medical community are all screaming that it's a bad idea, that it's too soon. Unfortunately, there's not much they can do to stop this other than scream. It's true that this lockdown has taken a big toll on mine and my family's sanity. We're looking forward to seeing other people again, but we're keeping it **extremely** limited. I get to see one person, my wife gets to see one person, and our son gets to see two people. It's going to feel like jumping into a cold pool after living in a sauna for two months. Extremely good and a little shocking.

I honestly don't know what to expect out of the rest of the world. Most of the people we know have been doing something similar to this all during the lockdown. I think we're actually one of the rarer cases that went into **total** lockdown, at least here in the states. Maybe that's just my impression. I know a lot of "essential" workers whose lives haven't really changed that much other than the fear and maybe the lack of business. We've already been contacted by some of our other friends who want to know if they can come see us. It's very flattering, but we've already picked who we want to see. We're just not comfortable opening ourselves up any more than we already plan to.

In other news, I finally got my hands on the rulebook for the [Alien Tabletop RPG](https://alien-rpg.com/) and the Chariot of the Gods cinematic module. This is the game that I played when I went to PAX Unplugged last year, and it's probably the most fun I've ever had playing a roleplaying game. It was a complete spur of the moment thing, but it was everything I ever wanted out of tabletop. Me and a bunch of friends, ordering pizza and soda, and getting immersed in a world completely unlike our own for almost 8 hours. It only tops my adventure in Odin's Redux because I came out of the experience with some new friends rather than remaining strangers to each other. It was completely amazing and I hope to recreate some of that adventure with my own friends. Although I know that most of the magic was due to the situation and the people, not the game itself. Even so, something about the Aliens setting lent itself well to good roleplaying and low pressure even in a high stakes game. It really was a perfect storm of roleplaying aspects. Everyone at the table was very experienced at both playing and DMing RPG sessions, some of them had invented their own games that they were selling at the convention, and some of them had even founded entire companies for the stuff. I'm not certain that I'll be able to capture everything they brought to the table when I try this, but I'll be able to capture something, I'm sure.

Learning a new system from scratch is pretty daunting, especially since I wasn't really "taught" how the system worked during my session. I know how to have players make skill checks and accumulate stress, but a lot of the system was kept a mystery and no one really asked any questions. For some reason, it still worked out, but I know it won't be that way for the players I'm likely to get. My current gaming group has 3-4 steady members. Only two of them have expressed interest in this system, and they're also the most invested in the rules and mechanics of any given system. I'm going to have to be really on my game to be able to answer their questions. It's also a little daunting because I plan on tapping the discord server that the group I played with usually hangs out in to see if any of them want to recapture the magic again. A little part of me hopes that they all say no. Having them play the same module again might spoil things a little.

Although, that could be avoided completely, now that I'm reading through the module again. Our GM for the session cut out at least one entire character and a whole ship in Act III from the story. Considering that we were taking a really long time to do things, it was probably for the best, or maybe we just didn't discover everything. Either way, I have ways I can make the whole thing a lot different for returning players, plus there's a mini-module already in the rulebook that I can fall back on, just to give people a taste.

Let's see, other news.

FFXIV has been slowly dying again for me. No one in my FC is ever online anymore. I know it's because we're between patches again, so I'm just biding my time, quietly leveling my classes so I have all the options when people start coming back. I'm resisting the temptation to leave my current FC again. I don't have nearly as much invested as before, just one friend who would miss me if I left, but gladly welcome me back if I applied again.

In the meantime, I'm not playing much else. I'm still brainstorming ways to make my kid's game more interesting. Maybe I'll work on that a little today. I'm always looking for a coding playground, and what better place than something that's meant to be an **actual** playground? Maybe I'll put this site through a redesign too at some point. Maybe not. I don't actually spend all that much time actually looking at my own site anymore. I just write content for it. I don't even know if anyone is reading this.
