---
title: Quarantine
category: general
---
I've heard it. You've heard it. We've all heard it. The world is in a state of emergency as Corona Virus makes its rounds and throws everything into a general state of chaos. People are panicking everywhere. Italy is in shambles as literally **everything** closes down. The president has instituted a travel ban and is talking about closing the borders completely. I'm basically on a self-imposed quarantine with my family. We're all fine, but it's apparently the season to be cautious.

But you know, through all of this I can't help but feel a sense of wonder. There are scores and scores of people unable to work due to them having physical jobs. But there are scores more who can work remotely. Allowances are being made and infrastructures are being tested, but the state of our world here is just so....convenient. With a skeleton crew of people, we're able to get food delivered, communicate with anyone, entertain ourselves with the limitless media of humankind, and even affect change right from our living rooms. Before radio, TV, and the internet, people would be huddled in their homes at a time like this, with little to no news from outside until it was all over. Imagine that, families huddled in their home, slowly going stir crazy, with zero human contact outside their immediate families.

And now, tonight, I'm going to spend my time playing a game with strangers from all over the world. We're going to meet collectively in a virtual playground and have a grand old time. If that's not personal enough for me, I can head onto the Weave discord and play a real game with real people who express themselves with real voices. I can head onto any number of social communities and have conversations with people from all over. And if I feel like checking on things, there are countless news outlets providing up to the minute coverage of everything being done to combat this crisis.

Now, I know there are holes in this whole mess. The media can provide false information. There are loads of people not as privileged as I am who will be staying up worrying about their lack of insurance because they lost their job because they can't work remotely. There are already people who have lost loved ones. It's tragic and stressful and everyone wishes that this didn't happen. But it is happening. Our systems are being tested. I'm happy that the ones keeping us connected are standing up to the stress.
