---
title: Aliens
category: tabletop
---
Man, trying to draw anything on a touchpad really sucks.

I finally got a group together to try out the Alien RPG that I bought a few weeks ago. Only 4 out of the 5 players showed up, but I think everyone still had a blast.

The scenario takes place between the opening scene to the second Aliens movie and the rest of the movie, and focuses on a group of colonists who were sent out on a maintenance run until their vehicle broke down and they were left with a "we'll get to you when we get to you." They come back to the colony to find it completely overrun with Xenomorphs, setting the stage for the marines to come knocking during the movie.

So we have a bunch of player characters, a few of which are turncoats. I **really** like the "personal agenda" concept in this system. I was a turncoat during the game I played, although I only got to actually betraying someone once and it was in the heat of battle, so it just looked despicable and cowardly rather than outright traitorous. In this most recent session, however, there was a blatant "You just tried to kill me!" moment. Fortunately, the player who committed the act failed, but succeeded in their bluff roll to weasel themselves out of trouble...for now. Everyone at the table was **very** familiar with the franchise. I managed to squeeze one somewhat vague description of a Facehugger before they were like "so it's a Facehugger then?" They're doing an excellent job of separating player knowledge from character knowledge and letting the scenario play out the horror stored in it.

The players come back to Hadley's Hope and find everyone quiet. They *sort of* sneak through the first area and catch a glimpse of the Facehugger skittering down a hallway. They exit the other side and follow a distress call to the bar. They find a Xenomorph trying to batter down the door and wisely decide to retreat. The officer in the group (played by me for now) fails their stealth roll and attracts the creature's attention. The group retreats back into the previous building, but the second-to-last player, who is a turncoat, turns and shoots the door panel. They succeed in their roll and the door slams shut, locking one of the other players, a marine, outside with the alien. The alien comes after them, but fails its attack. The android inside wrestles the door back open, the marine scrambles through the opening, turns, and blasts the creature with a cutting torch, causing it to retreat. I note the creature stalking them and they have some interaction with each other, forgetting the Facehugger that is now **very** aware of them. I decide that whoever is the last to say anything before I can seamlessly interrupte the conversation will be the victim. The marine gives the pilot's gun to the scientist, and the jig is up. I have the Facehugger drop from a ceiling vent and attempt to latch on to the marine's face. Technically, that should have been the end of the marine, since the alien's randomly chosen attack was The Final Embrace, but I figured it was too early for the character to die outright and bent the rules a little, giving the player a chance to retaliate. He stuck his cutting torch in the creature's "face" and blasted it with enough fire to kill it. Everyone got a little more stress because of that, but they all survived. The scientist, a turncoat in his own right, picked up the Facehugger corpse and took it with them. The players made their way outside again, careful of the Xenomorph they chased away, and made their way to the bar. The NPC that was holed up in there came rushing out to meet them in a panic at the same time that the pilot picked up movement on his tracker in the building they were right next to. They had discovered the hiding place of another Xenomorph. If they go in, I might have both Xenomorphs attack them at once.

Everyone had a blast and can't wait to meet again this week to see what happens next. I'm undecided on whether I want to try starting a more long-form campaign in this system. Characters don't really advance that much in this system. Except for getting new gear for their ship, I suppose. Maybe that's the point then, is to improve the lifestyle and equipment the players have rather than improve the player characters themselves. Presumably, the players will have a ship that they can continuously upgrade, or trade in for a better ship. But who knows? Maybe the other cinematic module will be out by then and we can just jump into that one.

I do regret buying the core rulebook on Amazon though. It means that I didn't get the PDF copy and this hard copy is all I have. The one thing I keep having trouble with is the vocabulary that this system uses for units of time.
* Round - 5-10 seconds. Used for actions during combat
* Turn - 5-10 minutes. Used for extended actions, such as being stealthy or analyzing something
* Shift - 5-10 hours. Used for continuous work, such as repairs

Calling the longer one Turn is really confusing. I'm hoping that by writing it out like this, it'll stick a little better for next session.
