---
title: Updates
category: general
---
It's been a while since I wrote here, almost two months. Lots of stuff has happened. I'm now part of 3 separate D&D campaigns, two as a player and one as a DM. Mine meets biweekly, and the other two schedule based on Doodle polls. Mine is the only completely homebrew campaign. I'm playing a dragonborn warlock being tempted towards evil and savagery in one and a human barbarian with a proud lineage looking to make his mark on the world in the other. They're all a blast and the major things keeping me sane through the pandemic. Speaking of which, the only good number having to do with the pandemic is the really low countdown until the vaccine is available. They're saying that the first shipments arrived in the US last week, which hopefully means they're going to start distribution. We're hopefully going to have something approaching a normal existence by March, almost exactly one year after the world started taking this thing seriously. We can't wait.

My son starts preschool this week. We decided that the risk of infection was worth it if my wife and I went into our own complete lockdown. So, we're basically giving up our social lives so our son can start getting something resembling an education. Best case scenario is that this brings his speech development up to par with other kids his age quickly. My parents aren't too happy about the increased lockdown, but we're pretty scared of the unpredictability of school nowadays. I hope they understand...

As for my gaming, I've beaten Yakuza 0 and started on Control. I haven't played FFXIv in a long time, but I'm keeping my subscription. The new patch is about to drop, so that might bring me back for a week or two before I go back to Control. Control is a trippy game. It's the latest in a long line of games that ask the question "What if the things described on [scp-wiki.net](http://www.scpwiki.com/) got out?" There's all sorts of horrifying and reality-bending things that can kill you, enslave you, turn you into a vegetable, or strand you on the far side of the galaxy. The gameplay is fairly standard, but I'm playing for the story and for the creative gadgets you encounter. Yakuza 0 was a trip and a half. I spent so much time in the last two chapters wrapping up all the side quests, but even that was still seriously enjoyable. I loved most of the characters, and would download and listen to the entire soundtrack if I still had a commute. There's just so much stuff packed into that game.

I picked up Bee Simulator, Journey, and Lego Jurassic World for my son. He still doesn't quite get the idea of objectives yet, but he's enjoying exploring the worlds.

As for my art, I'm starting the last lesson on Drawabox. It's been a grindy but enjoyable ride so far, especially after I got through the basic exercises and the homework started resembling actual art. The previous chapter was drawing everyday objects inside of a scaffolding of boxes. This next chapter will have me drawing vehicles that are both inside of a scaffolding and have forms stacked on top of them. It places a heavy focus on ratios and measuring the vehicles "by wheels" in order to get the proportions right. Either way, I'm looking forward to branching out into another course that gets a little more color into my drawings. Although I think after I'm done with this course, I'm going to take a break and focus more on traditional art for a while. My sketchbook and pencils have been sitting neglected for a long time.

Lastly, the new job is going well. I'm still struggling to learn C++ on the job, especially when everyone is working remotely, but I'm making okay progress. I figured out how to make a REST request and parse the JSON response, something that would have been really easy in C#. I expect there to be a lot of feedback on my code when someone gets a good look at it. I bet they'll tell me about all the garbage collection I should be doing, but when I tried to do some of that, all I got was access errors, so I dunno.

For now, it's back to drawing wheels, and then working on my one hand-crafted christmas present.
