---
title: Quarantine: Week 5
category: general
---
It's day....(checks calendar)...35-ish of our self-imposed isolation. Our moods have sort of stabilized this week. Neither my wife nor I are growing any more depressed or stir-crazy that I can tell. We have bad days, but I don't think we're getting any worse. Meanwhile, the world continues to burn around us.

The big guy released some guidelines for states to follow to open back up that basically involve proving that your overall pandemic figures like new infections, hospitalizations, and deaths, are on a downward trend for 14 days before you're allowed certain things, like returning to work in limited quantities, events at large venues in limited numbers, and restarting elective medical procedures. If you remain on a downward trend for another 14 days, then non-essential travel can start back up, schools can reopen, large venues can operate under "moderate" social distancing protocols, gyms and bars can reopen with reduced capacity. Then, after another 14 days of downward trends, visits to senior care facilities can resume, large venues can relax their restrictions even further, gyms and bars can get back to standard occupancy limits.

As far as guidelines go, these aren't too back. The continuous checkpoints of downward trends ensures that new spikes will set states back into lockdown if they start to show more cases again.

As for me, I only have two checkpoints that I care about right now.

1. Can I visit one friend and their family either by myself or with my family?
2. When do the major sporting events start back up again?

I have no illusions about how soon #2 will happen. It won't be for a loooooooooong time. It's just that it's tied to my income. The sooner people can buy tickets to things again, the sooner I can stop worrying about my company going bankrupt and having to let me go. I suppose the nice thing is that I have a pretty desired skillset, I think. And one that works very well for telecommuting. So I shouldn't have too much trouble finding a job so long as I can locate a company that didn't also go under due to this shutdown.

We're hanging in there, but we might be nearing the end of our rope. I dunno. It's hard to tell what's just a bad and stressful day versus us legitimately being unable to take any more isolation. I actually have been having some pretty bad dizzy spells this week, but I eventually remembered that I hadn't had any caffeine all week. Once I got some Mountain Dew in me, I was fine. The bigger problem for me is my weight. I'm almost back up to where I was when I started on keto. Once I'm through my current batch of soda, I'm going to redownload the Lose It app and start tracking my calories again. I'd rather not let this pandemic turn me fat, and I've been trying to get more comfortable with the idea of being hungry some of the time. My other problem is that I eat when I'm bored, but that's easier to fix.

I'm picking up piano again too. I ordered a beginner book from Amazon. It should be here any day now. It'll be another neat thing I can do when I have spare time. Which reminds me, I should pull out my sketch book again and try something new. I think I'm about ready to start drawing something that's not from a reference image. Maybe I'll try creating a character and just drawing them repeatedly in different poses and with different expressions or equipment. I'm just looking for easy things that I can sink a few minutes to a half hour into every so often and get sort-of-competent at that are mildly impressive or somewhat useful.

I just finished up a training course on Angular at work. It covered RxJS and `pipe`, which have confused me for a very long time. I've attempted a couple of times to write a variety of Angular apps. Dandy Game Shop is written in AngularJS, and HIVE Weather was written in Angular....4? I dunno. I feel like I need to sit down and create another new Angular application sometime soon, but my plate's going to be full with transitioning my coworkers who took the class with me onto their new project. I'm very nervous about this transition. Not only are they much more junior devs than I'm used to on this project, but our manager just went on paternity leave for two weeks, and our QA team is transitioning too. The rest of this month is going to be stupid...

I'll say this though, I have never been more thankful that I cultivated a high interest in video games. It ensures that I always have something entertaining to do, and it only feels like wasted time **some** of the time. But I'm keeping entertained, I do enough productive things to feel satisfied, and I'm holding our household together. Now if only my job can sustain itself until this is all over, I'll have my life back again. If not....then I'd better start looking around for new job prospects. I might just take some time this weekend to rewrite my resume. Man, do I have a lot of things to add to that old thing.
