---
title: Not Going Back
---
Yeah, I'm not going back to VS Code for anything except Angular development. Atom just feels better right now.

So I'm here, it's the day after the previously scheduled day that our state was supposed to reopen. Unsurprisingly, the reopening was delayed until next month, but my wife and I are still planning on going out and seeing our one friend each. We just can't really take the isolation anymore. I'm doing mostly fine personally, but my wife boredom and frustration is bleeding out into the household. I'm trying to stay positive, but it's wearing on me too. We have good days and we have bad days. Fortunately, we've had very few days where both of us are having bad days at the same time.

So other than that, I'm trying to pull together a gaming group to go through the little module at the end of the Alien RPG book that I got. I've only got one bite so far and I'm fishing for a couple more. I could probably run this with three people. The basic team of PCs is.....5, and I could handle playing 2 NPCs along with the rest of the thing, but I'd really prefer to have the entire team. I still have a discord group with all the people I played with at PAXU, so I'll probably tap them once I get a few more solid answers from my other two picks. I'm so excited!!

I've been trying to let other projects grab my attention for a week or so now. I'm working on the AB redesign, I'm getting back into working on Bump in the Night a little, and I have a game that I made for my son, that he has completely abandoned in favor of Ori 1 and 2. I can't complain, they're professionally done by a team of people and I love them myself. I won't fault him for not playing the games I want him to, so long as he enjoys himself. I've let my sketching fall behind a little in favor of playing the piano. My hands are remembering quite a bit from my childhood years. I have two more songs in the book I'm using before I need to start looking for other pieces to learn. It's been a lot of fun and I hope I can keep it up this time. I also started working out again. My back has been giving me some trouble again and I'm getting frustrated with the lack of a physical outlet for my energy. So, I work out on my bowflex any morning that I feel like it. It's been good, I definitely feel the difference in my back pain.

God, I just want this scan to end so I can work on other stuff...

Heh, I also started getting a little more serious about Rocket League. I started watching actual tutorial videos and branching out. I tried playing in 1v1 the other day and got my butt absolutely kicked. I realized I have almost no skill whatsoever. I can't dribble, I can't defend, I can't really shoot on my own, I can't fly, I can barely block, it sucks. However, I had to remember that by doing this, I'm basically rewiring my brain with a new skill. That meant a lot of fighting with myself and an entire day of mental exhaustion when I was done.

I realized something else about myself that day: everything that I usually do to relax requires mental effort. So if I'm mentally exhausted, I don't really have anything that I can do to help myself recover other than sleep. Eh....maybe that's not entirely true. I could have watched anime. I just don't really have anything fun that I can do where I can turn my brain off and let it recover. Nothing that I can just go on complete auto-pilot for. Jogging comes to mind for that, but I hate jogging and can't really leave the house right now.

So, here we are. I can hear my son playing Ori and the Blind Forest in the other room. He probably hasn't gotten out of the room I left his character in. He's getting better, shockingly. He's able to move the character how he wants pretty easily. He's starting to figure out that the controller does things, and he's acquiring stunts like crouching and jumping little by little. I'm going to have to get him his own gaming laptop before too long, or give him my old PS2 and introduce him to some of those games instead. I have a little gaming center in my office that I don't use. I'm not even sure if it still works anymore. I would check, but I don't have a power cord for the PS2 anymore. I'll have to order a new one.
