---
title: Quarantine - Week 2
category: general
---
It's Thursday of week 2 of our self-imposed quarantine, which now has the backing of the state and some of the country as a "Stay Home, Stay Safe" order. All non-essential businesses are ordered to close their doors, gatherings of 10 or more people have been banned, and the call has gone out to anyone who can help manufacture hospital equipment or convert large spaces into makeshift hospitals. My wife received a phone call from a personal friend asking her to donate her time and materials to sew fabric face masks for hospital staff. Apparently, they'll be using the fabric masks over the existing ones to make them last longer, since the fabric is machine washable and reusable.

I'm able to very comfortably work from home. I've had some of the most productive days of my career these past two weeks. My problem is that my company makes all of its money selling tickets to large gatherings of people. As you might expect, we're not making ANY money right now. But, the company president has said that we actually followed the advice given to so many middle-class individuals and actually have enough money in a "rainy day" savings account to keep the company afloat for around 6 months without cutbacks. That's not to say he's not looking for places to cut back, but we'll be cutting stuff rather than people. My headset and webcam are proving to be great investments as I'm able to participate in meetings very easily. We actually had a department manager meeting yesterday, that had 30+ simultaneous videos going. It was really refreshing to see everyone's faces again.

We've been watching the news a lot lately, mostly CNN, to keep track of things. Congress finally signed on the economic stimulus package to help keep the economy afloat. Looks like we fall into the bracket that's going to get a $2,500 check or something. It's not a lot, considering how much I make normally, and we're not really hurting, but I'm not going to say no to money. The governor of New York said something I liked a lot in criticism of our President, "You've already said that this is a war. Now it's time to **act like it**." He was referring to the President's delay in imposing the Defense Act, which would grant the federal government the ability to conscript companies into producing materials needed for the "war effort." In the past, that has been things like bullets, plastic for plane windows, sturdy cloth for soldiers clothing, and borrowing airplanes and cruise ships for troop transport. For this, it'll be things like making hospital masks and scrubs, manufacturing ventilators, and converting large spaces to medical facilities. They're saying that all this stuff is happening anyway, but there's a lot of disarray as the states are left to their own devices, competing for resources.

The world is divided between people who are scared of this and people who are not. Italy is scared and in almost complete lockdown, Mexico is not and its business as usual. We're scared and self-isolating, but my mother-in-law is not. It's crazy.

We're only going out for food, really. I'm pretty sure all three of us have COVID-19 (as it's not being called). None of us have symptoms bad enough that we can get tested. We keep hearing that you should only get tested if you have shortness of breath. I'm checking myself every day by inhaling and seeing if I feel any pain or start coughing, and that's not happening. I'm being careful when I go out to use hand sanitizer and not cough when I'm out of my car and inside buildings. I'm pretty sure our son brought it back from daycare the Thursday before we went into isolation, then it passed to me, and then to my wife. My son was sick with cold symptoms and a fever all last week. He stayed happy, but that's probably because he's either going full blast or running on empty. I started getting sick last Friday with the same symptoms, but no fever. I was finally able to breath through my nose again the day before yesterday. My wife caught it this past Monday and spent all of yesterday working on the face masks and trying not to pass out. She had so little energy that she had to sit down and rest every 10-15 minutes. She hasn't been doing that great lately. She's a natural extrovert, and one of the biggest things that would keep her sane this season would be her work on the weekends at various renn faires. Those aren't happening, so she's going much more stir crazy than I am. I miss my social activity, but I'm much more okay getting my interaction through video chat and discord than she is. My kid doesn't know the difference. He's just happy that he gets to see daddy multiple times a day now, when I come out of my office for a break for food or to go to the bathroom.

I just got back from one such break, and CNN just reported that we had 10 deaths in a NYC hospital last night. It's getting real scary now. There are accounts of some politicians saying things like "our grandparents should be prepared to die for the sake of their grandchildrens' economy"..... Wtf is that!? I get that it might be practical. Some people are going to die to this, but to come out and say that we should expect it is something a movie villain dictator would say. It's not something an actual human would say, especially not in a political address. Shit's crazy. This is the sort of thing that really shows the measure of a person. Trump is showing us a person who is willfully ignorant of the facts and trying to present a good face, but is handling it horribly. A CNN journalist asked him to give a message to the American people the other day. He said "what do you have to say to the American people in this time of fear and crisis." As far as questions to ask a President, you don't get much more underhand-pass than that. It should have been the easiest thing Trump did all day. Say something to give the people a little hope that you're actually doing what you can to fight this. Instead, the president took a defensive stance. "How dare you ask me that question. Your a third-rate reporter who works for fake news looking to undermine my presidency." WHAT!!? You were given a golden apple on a silver platter, all you had to do was slice it neatly and hand it back. And instead you mashed it to a bloody pulp and held it up for everyone to see. This year is going to haunt Trump's presidency forever. Then there's Sanders. No one has heard anything on the news from him because he has abandoned his campaigning and is taking all the money he raised and giving it to hospitals and charity. It's true, Trump may have some redeeming qualities and Sanders certainly has problems. But that's still the kind of person I want running this country. Trump has any number of things he personally could have done to measure up. He could have converted his hotels into hospitals and I think he has his own cruise ships that he could have turned into tranports for the national guard or something. The office of the President is meant to serve the country, and I want a person there who will actually give of himself (or herself) to serve the best interests of the country.

But in spite of it all, I still feel connected to friends. I texted with an old work colleague yesterday, one of the few I consider to be an actual friend, and he was really thankful I checked in. Nothing was wrong in his life, he was just glad for the company. I subscribe to a twitch channel called ImaginaryMonsters. He streams his programming and art process while working on his game, mostly just to hang out with people while he's working. He said he feel like he's graduated from someone who streams for fun to a sort of public servant. Streamers and streaming services are becoming the crux of our entertainment and community. So many people are putting things online. Teachers are streaming their courses, our local library streamed storytime online, my friend who's a personal trainer is streaming his morning yoga routine and selling streaming routines online, and I'm video calling with my parents nearly every night so they can check in and see their grandson. It's amazing, but also really sad. I read an article the other day that someone was being charged with terrorism because they coughed on a government official or something. There's a group of lawyers that's putting together a case to sue China because they were ground zero for the virus. There are still thousands or millions of people out there who think this is no big deal. And none of them understand that we **want** history to look back and say that we overreacted to this. Because the alternative is that they look back and say "Why didn't they do enough?"

I'm writing all this down because I'm remembering a couple articles I read about journaling and how so much of what we know about daily life for people from previous eras are the tiny little notes they made during their lives. Like the whole thing with salt and pepper. We apparently have evidence that people used to have a third "common table-spice condiment", but we have no idea what it was or what was in it. There are so many things I think are insignificant and "why would historians ever be interested in this?" sort of things, but they would be. I don't even know if this journal is going to last after I'm gone. It's all bits on a hard drive. I could pretty easily print it, which I might do if I keep it through my life. It's all dated text files anyway, not fixed to a specific medium. The beauty of Markdown! Maybe someday someone will read this stuff and find out what kind of a person I am, maybe no one will be interested. But I'm sure someone will be interested to know what life was like during The Great Adaptation, which is apparently something some people are calling this time period.

I also really like working in an office with a window again :D
