---
title: Altered States
category: general
---
This post has probably been a long time coming, but that's probably because I haven't really wanted to express my thoughts on this subject to anyone. I don't really feel comfortable talking about this with anyone in person just yet, even though it's one of the few things in my worldview that I'm relatively certain of and actually do a decent amount of research into. I'm talking about altered states of consciousness and (a term I only recently learned) neurodivergent minds.

Let me state a couple of things before I dive in. First, I do **not** consider myself neurodivergent. I think I have a normal brain with normal thought processes and free of significant trauma. I lean very slightly towards antisocial and I have rare bouts of depression, but I believe that's normal. Second, I do fully believe in altered states of consciousness. Meditation can take your mind to extraordinary places, DID is a real thing, and all (or nearly all) of the mental disorders out there are real enough that they should be taken seriously. Third, I do **not** believe that it is possible for what's going on in your head to affect the outside world unless you 1, express what's going on, 2 whatever or whoever you're trying to affect is open to being affected, and 3, about a million other things have to line up for your effect to happen. If you "send positive energy" to something, it's not going to do diddly squat except make you feel better unless you make it known that you're sending the energy (expression), your intended recipient is open to receiving it (doesn't want to be alone), and a million other things line up. I don't believe in true astral projection, or any other powers that psychics might claim to have that affect the outside world. I believe that anything is possible within your own mind, but the methods we have for letting what's in there affect the outside world are extremely limited.

Anyway, I'm making this post because I recently discovered a YouTube channel called DissociaDID, which is run by a woman with DID to raise awareness about the condition and try to remove the stigma surrounding it. I spent a good deal of time last night diving into the rabbit hole that is this person's channel, learning a lot, and seeing an actual person with DID interact with a camera and her friends. I found it fascinating, and was reminded of my own experiments with altered states of consciousness. I haven't been able to stop thinking about the channel and my experiences, so here I am, codifying them so they're out of my head (which is what my previous post was all about).

I think I first got interested in altered states when I was younger and picked up a book series called Mindwarp. Each book in the series follows a kid as they reach their 13th birthday. They each discover they have a different special ability, along with manifesting silver blood. As the series goes on, it turns out they're all part alien and there's this big conspiracy involving their scientist parents. I didn't get much farther than the first 5 books because the Barnes & Nobel by my house stopped carrying them. The first book was about a boy who discovered extreme martial arts and coordination abilities. That hooked me, as I was fully invested in judo and tae kwon do at the time. The second book was about a girl who had various fish abilities. She grew gills and webbing when underwater, and could regenerate lost limbs and even an entire body from a severed limb. The third book was about a kid who could suddenly speak any language, including that of ants.

The fourth book is where this all started. This girl discovered she was psychic. She could read thoughts and astral project. The book's description of astral projection fascinated me enough that I started poking around the internet and found a fair number of sites that advertised this as a real thing that real people could accomplish. I was no idiot and knew a good many of them had scams hidden underneath, so I never gave any identifying information about myself (or any information at all) to any of these sites. But I found a few tutorials and started experimenting. As you might expect, I never succeeded in projecting my spirit outside my body. I thought I got close once, but I think all I did was activate the store of oxygen rich blood cells in my pancreas. The basic principle I followed was to basically slow your breathing until you "died", and then your spirit would leave your body and you could explore the world as you liked. Some accounts told of a "silver thread" that connected your spirit to your body. I eventually decided that actually leaving your body was BS, and all I was doing was really strong meditation. So I started researching into that, and the results were much more promising. There was much better documentation on how meditation worked, and how it could help someone strengthen their mind. It made much more sense to me that the brain was capable of amazing things within itself, and not on the outside world.

That continued through my college years. I even did some experimenting with hypnosis. Only by myself, using recordings. I never opened up about this to anyone. I was too embarrassed. My research held there. I occasionally meditated, but probably not often enough for it to have a lasting effect on me. I did it very rarely to relax.

More recently, I discovered the r/tulpas subreddit, and was fascinated yet again. A tulpa is basically a willingly made split personality. While dissociative identity disorder is an actual disorder brought about by trauma, tuplas are willingly created by the host. Maybe out of curiosity, or maybe a preemptive attempt to deal with trauma that happened too late in life for DID alters to be created on their own. I was pretty sure I didn't want to dive too deep into tulpas, but I went through a thought experiment to see if the idea grabbed me enough that I wanted to try creating one. It didn't. I'm way too content to live alone in my own head. Having a tulpa might be fun for a while, but I don't think I could live with a permanent other resident in my own head.

Then I discovered the DissociaDID channel. I was watching something related to Daniel Radcliffe, and this video popped up of this girl with DID having her alters take the Pottermore quiz. My first reaction was skepticism. I'm very aware of people who try to use their disabilities to elicit sympathy and pity. Don't get me wrong, these kind of disabilities and disorders are terrible things to have to live with and anyone who does is actually an incredibly strong person. But disability or no, if I think you're a selfish dick, I don't want you in my life, no matter the reason. So I watched some more videos, including one or two of the woman switching on camera. I keep saying this, but it was still fascinating. I watched the Meet the Alters videos and was amazed at the changes this one person kept going through. I might still not have believed it if her voice and accent didn't actually when she switched. I was extremely interested in this latest video that I watched this morning where she has her childhood friend on the channel and they talk about what it's like being friends with someone who has DID. I would have thought it would be exhausting, basically having to maintain a relationship with several different people and sets of memories when only being able to see one of them at a time and knowing they could switch out at any moment. But when the host switched on camera, I found myself identifying with the friend's reaction. She took it in good stride, and didn't make a big deal out of it at all. I hope I'd have the same sort of reaction if I was ever with someone like this.

So, those are my thoughts on altered states. My full history on my experiences with the subject. I'm still looking at life through a lens of privilege. I'm a straight white cis man with a neurotypical mind and a stable home life. But I love learning more about the world, especially things like this.
