---
title: Many Updates
category: general
---
Man, a lot of things have shifted lately.

I've been using the Drawabox drills and lessons as a sort of meditative start to my day. Most mornings, I'll wake up, take care of the dogs, settle down to to through the roulettes in FFXIV, play a little DOOM Eternal, then work on an art drill until my kid wakes up or it's time for work. With that many video games in the morning, I usually wound up feeling burnt out by the afternoon, but the art functions as a pretty good reset button and I'm good for the day. My tablet and Krita have been working out pretty well, despite me technically cheating through Drawabox by not using ink. An ad on that site also led me to Ctrl+Paint, which is the same sort of thing, but with the later lessons focusing a lot more on digital art. I plan on looking through that at some point in the future too.

I spent a couple hours this morning getting my drawing tablet to work on my Linux laptop. Wacom doesn't have any official Linux drivers, so I had to go through their open-source drivers and figure out which parts of the install tutorial applied to my system and which parts I had to alter. I eventually got it working, installed Krita, and worked my way through a couple dozen more boxes for Drawabox's 250 Box challenge. It's actually really relaxing. I'm taking some advice from some artist youtubers and taking occasional breaks from the lessons to draw on my own to keep my motivation up. It's really nice.

I redrew Stitch as a bit of a progress check for myself. Stitch was one of my first drawings after I got serious about sketching, about 9-10 months ago. My proportions have gotten soooooooo much better. I know my shading has as well, but I didn't use any of that on this image. I honestly didn't think my first attempt was that bad, but it's soooooo bad compared to my second attempt. Feels good to see how I've improved.

I somehow found motivation to go back and work on Sia Malak. I just finished adding the first draft of the last of the elements, which basically means I've finished my outline. Now I get to start moving all the titles and descriptions over to the cards, and then coming up with mechanics for all of them. I don't have to wait until then to start alpha testing though. As soon as I have titles and descriptions, I can convert the set to a json dump, put it up on my website, and get actual players in front of it. I'm sure that'll inject some much needed life into the Weave discord server. Things have been too quiet there these past few months, mostly because only one of the moderators has been posting, and the app has been stuck in perpetual upgrade hell, where they keep finding bugs and issues in the beta and stalling it's release. We'll see what some fresh content will do about that. Hehehe.

In sadder RPG news, the DM of the pirates campaign, the one where I was going to turn my character into a drug kingpin, has stalled with writer's block and been put on hiatus. It was just long enough for me to get invested into my character's story and development too... So, not one to sit and wait anymore, I offered to fill the gap with my own homebrew campaign. I invited the DM of the pirates game, along with a bunch of other people I've played with. I'm sure they're all coming up with characters right now, and we haven't even had our first meeting yet. I have their setting preferences now, so I get to come up with a few basic campaign tag lines that I can pitch to them. I'll probably make a post in the near future brainstorming that. I'm really excited to run a full D&D campaign again. Running Weave and Aliens has given me a lot more confidence in my improvisational skills. The difference there is that I didn't have to come up with the full stories. Weave writes the story for you as you go, and I only played the one module in Aliens. But I hope I can come up with something enjoyable, and play the campaign I always wanted to, where I weave the characters' backstories into the plot.

Let's see, what else?

I ordered a power cord for my PS2 and learned that 90% of the games don't work anymore, so I'm getting my sister's PS2 from my parents place. Hopefully, that'll work better. My kid is getting much better at games, despite not yet being 4 years old. He still likes Ori and the Blind Forest. I introduced him to Spyro and an indie puzzle game called Edge, that he's surprisingly good at. Oh! My computer mouse died, so I had to finally unbox the gaming mouse my wife got for me a few years ago. It feels pretty nice. I decided I needed some more anime in my life again, so I started watching Demon Slayer. I read the manga all the way through already, and it's nice that it has an actual ending. And the anime is by ufotable, which means the combat will be well-choreographed and beautifully animated. GenCon Online is happening in a couple weeks. I missed event registration opening by a couple hours, so a couple of the things I really wanted to go to were sold out. Apparently, one of our favorite card games, Red Dragon Inn, is getting an adventure mode. That sold out quick. I bought Tabletop Simulator for this and I'm really looking forward to going to a convention again, even if it will be from the comfort of my house. I still have two more blank pages in my sketchbook, and now I have two large sketchbooks to fill after that. Yippie!!

Quarantine still sucks, but I think we're more in balance than we were a few months ago. We've settled into a routine of expectation, my wife has been going through projects again, I'm settling in with my new hobbies, and we're SO thankful that our kid won't be old enough for school until next year. I feel so sorry for all my friends with school-age kids. The government is all for sending kids back to school in the fall, no matter the consequences. We're suffering so much needlessly because of people's refusal to take this seriously. We're so divided it's sad. Someone posted a map of all the countries in the world that Americans are still allowed to travel to....there's like, two. The world hates us right now, or thinks we're a joke, and there's nothing an ordinary citizen like me can do about it other than vote and hope. I don't think our country will survive another four years of the cheeto-in-chief.
