---
title: Stir Crazy
category: general
---
We're starting week 8 of social isolation. We have a bunch of people asking when we'll feel comfortable seeing people again. It was exacerbated by my wife's birthday Zoom party last night. We were reminded how much we miss seeing people in person. We're telling everyone that we'll open ourselves back up after our state gets to phase one of the federally recommended reopening plan. Most of the state is assuming that'll happen on May 20th, which is... (checks calendar)... just over two weeks from today. That means they're assuming the best case scenario where the cases continue to decline for the rest of the month. Considering how antsy I hear people have been getting, I hope that we can all keep our heads for a little while longer, at least here in this state.

Other states I'm seeing, aren't so patient. Florida, Georgia, and Kentucky are chomping at the bit to get reopened. They're even having protests full of people brandishing their firearms. I don't understand why the police aren't getting involved with this. It's probably because a good amount of those protesters were paid to be there by corporations instead of being wholly out there against a corporation, like the people protesting the oil pipelines were. This country has become so stupid. We're slowly going back to the days when companies would have their workers set up next to exposed radioactive material because the safety precautions were too expensive. The decision makers at big companies are so far removed from workers like that, they don't have any qualms about endangering their lives so long as the bucks keep rolling in.

But, we're still doing okay here. I'm a little worried that our personally strict lockdown policy will be seen by our friends as selfish eventually. Especially by our friends who are essential workers and are forced to expose themselves to other people anyway. I really hope we don't lose any friendships over this whole mess. We're just trying to do our part to keep from contributing to the problem.
