---
title: Vacation Over
category: general
---
Welp, all it took was me leaving home for a week for us to get power back. I was gone literally 4 hours, and our switch came back on. Sheesh.

It's the last full day of my vacation at our lakehouse today. Shockingly, I was considerably more productive than I thought I'd be this week. I finished my still-life drawing (the first one I've done in almost a year), I wrote up as much as I dare in my D&D campaign, I even started back into working on Sia Malak again, and I installed .NET Core on my laptop so I can actually run some of the other projects I'm building. So now I have Ruby on Rails, Love2D, Node, Jekyll, Python, and .NET Core all on my little laptop. About the only other thing I'd need for any project I work on is a PHP server, but that is so far down on my priority list that I'm probably never going back to it. Setting it up is too bloody annoying. Ehh... that's probably not true. Setting it up with **debugging** capabilities though, now that's annoying.

Oh, I also completed my next Drawabox homework, texture analysis. That was annoying. I started to wonder if doing the exercises digitally was limiting my options again, since the pen brush I'm using doesn't respond to pressure. Real ink pens don't respond to pressure either, so I wonder how the pictures in the lessons managed to get what look like faded lines. Oh well, I'm doing my best and learning a construction approach to drawing. One thing's for sure, I'm absolutely pro at drawing boxes now. My still life included a tissue box, and I could pick out all the flaws in it when I drew it. I couldn't fix them yet, but I'm certain it looked better than it would have two months ago. The other thing I got out of this latest lesson was the idea that lines don't actually exist in the real world. Objects are divided by shadows, perspective, texture, and color. Lines are just a construct we use in drawings to divide things, and overusing them can make a drawing look cartoonish. Some parts of my still-life didn't look right to me unless I added those lines in, but I think I should have stopped myself before that. The shadows sold the division just fine in other places.

I'm going to take a page out of another artist's book for my next independent study step. I've drawn from reference plenty of times and gotten fairly good at direct copying. I think the next step is to go more free-form. The other artist was stuck and asked his mentor what he should do next. His mentor meant to just get him drawing, so he told him to pick a thing that he thought he could draw fairly well, and draw one of it every day for two months (or something like that). I'm going to take a character that I think I can draw, and draw them over and over again, in different poses, maybe with different styles, and with different accessories. My character is going to be Amaterasu from the game Okami. She's pretty, simple enough that I think I could draw her, and yet complex enough that I can have some fun with her. Not to mention that there's plenty of fanart of her in different styles. And once I fill a page or two with her, I'll pick another character to do a deep study on.
