---
title: Site Updates
category: general
---
You won't notice this, but I cleaned up a TON of third-party scripts from my repository in favor of using the CDN hosted scripts. I'm getting Bootstrap from bootstrapcsn, Open Iconic from CloudFlare, jQuery from....jQuery, and Popper from jsdelivr.

Now that I look at that, it's a lot of different places to go just to load my site. And all I really use jQuery for is the fancy navigation button. I suppose I use bootstrap for the responsiveness. I *could* go through and completely convert this to a custom, self-written, responsive site with nothing unnecessary, but no. I'm perfectly content knowing that my home page loads in 280ms and only transfers 110KB of data. Perfectly small and perfectly static. The biggest single request is...jQuery slim. Surprise surprise.

I also just checked, and this is my 303rd post. I'm pretty sure I made a post a long time ago about how many posts I had on this site. Let's see.... my 100th post was [Game Experience - Left 4 Dead]({% post_url 2015/2015-02-23-game-experience-left-4-dead %}). Isn't that something? I had over 100 posts before I migrated off of Blogger. My 200th post was...[Project Restarted]({% post_url 2017/2017-12-12-project-restarted %}), which kicked off the longest and biggest game development project I've ever tried. I still haven't finished it. I actually haven't really picked up game development since stopping that to work on my art. Isn't that something? My 300th post was [Talking Day]({% post_url 2020/2020-01-21-talking-day %}), which was a throwaway post about mental energy stores and running empty on certain types of energy (deep thinking vs social). 300 posts in 9 years. That's...actually pretty terrible by web blogging standards. But then, there's probably some significant gaps early on as I'm trying to figure out whether I want this to focus on something specific or just be my online journal. Obviously, I decided on the latter. I'm not here to provide a service to anyone anymore. This isn't my advertising platform or anything related to content I create. It's just my journal and my static site playground.

I did just think of one good thing that converting the site to use CDN will do. It will actually make it easier to change the layout of the rest of the site without also having to remember to change the Harlem Shaker page.

This is the first post I've made that links to other posts, and I just learned that I did the paths wrong. I wonder if anything's been updated in the HTML5 Boilerplate that I used to write this project. Yep, some updates, none of which will be useful to me. So the site is staying the way it is until or unless I'm bit with the design bug and want to rework everything.

I recently discovered a new front-end framework called [Mint](https://www.mint-lang.com/). Maybe I'll give that a try, although I'm worried that support for it is limited. If it compiles down to JS, I can limit everything to a client application, like I did for HIVE Weather and the Dandy Game Shop. If not, I'll have to see if Heroku supports Mint, which it probably doesn't. The main issue I have with Mint right now is the lack of Windows-specific install instructions. I could probably stumble my way through the "Install from source" script to do it, but I'd rather go hunting for someone who's already done it. And nope... according to the GitHub issues, Mint is written using a language called Crystal, which does not support Windows. So that's out the window unless I restrict my playground to my Linux laptop. I suppose I could do that, but that doesn't bode well for support elsewhere either. Oh well. I still really like having a laptop that actually works again.

Maybe I'll try building something in VueJS finally, or something a little more complicated in Rails, like finally getting my convention planning website off the ground. First, I should focus on the remainder of the things I need for AB. That's fall by the wayside lately.

I like that I'm discovering all these "tiny" frameworks that I can use for hobby projects. Having to download an Apache server and install mysql and PHP, or get the entirety of Visual Studio and IIS Express always seemed like overkill to someone like me. Having tinier libraries like .NET Core, Love, Rails, and Node make me feel a lot better about my hobby projects. I suppose Rails is still pretty big-ish. But I'm definitely much more fond of frameworks that give you the bare minimum and have a config file that tells the framework to go out and download other libraries. .NET Core, Rails, and Node do this wonderfully. Love doesn't have the script repo, so you just include things in your project as scripts. It's an interpreted language, so that's alright.

I love the minimalist frameworks.
