---
title: Powerless
category: rant
---
Well, my life *was* looking up, then Tropical Storm Isaias hit and knocked our power out for the rest of the week.

So now, I'm here again, sorting through all my feelings, attempting to give labels to all my stressors in the hopes that they'll be less stressful.

Number one is probably work. This was going to be my last productive week before I go on vacation, then come back and start my job hunt in earnest. I'm probably going to be forced to take PTO to account for this week, which I suppose is fine. It's not like I was planning on using it for anything else anyway. I just... I have work hanging over my head and the things I needed to get done before moving on are wearing on my mind. I just have to accept that there's literally nothing I can do about it and move on. Work will be there when I get back online and it's not like I feel particularly attached to my work nowadays anyway.

Number two is the generator. We got the generator with the house when we bought it. It's been sitting in our garage with a quarter tank of gas and a full container of oil for 7+ years. We turned it on maybe once a year or so after we bought the house. This is the first time we actually attempted to use it. It's doing that thing that I absolutely hate to encounter at work, where the behavior changes every time you try it. Sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't, with no rhyme or reason to it. I'll turn it on, and it'll run for anywhere from 1 minute to an hour and a half. I've disconnected the oil sensor and refilled the oil with fresh oil (after a day and a half of use, that is), and nothing has changed. It manages to run for those 90 minutes in the morning and evening. It runs for a minute or less in the afternoon. My best guess is overheating, but I have no idea what to do about that, or even if that's the cause. My biggest problem would be taking it to get looked at and possibly repaird. I don't need that extra expense right now. But man, I sure wish we had done our due diligence and looked in to how to care for this thing. Maybe gotten to know it a little better. My wife is much better than me at living with sub-par technology. She accepts lag in her controller, not being able to watch certain things, a laptop with a 10 minute startup time, and many other things. I just can't live like that.

I feel like the generator is activating a paternal nerve I have. Since I can't get it to work, I'm failing to provide for my family. That probably cuts the deepest out of any of this. And I'm being prevented from fixing it because I haven't the foggiest idea how to maintain an engine. And the fact that I don't know anything about it is preventing me from learning because I don't want to do something I'm not immediately good at. I know that's false and stupid and I should just ignore that, but I'm also terrified of fucking things up or spending more money than I have to. I'm very conscious about how much money we spend and spending too much always makes me feel uncomfortable.

Number three is what the lack of power does to my lifestyle. I haven't been able to play games in three days, and I'm going on vacation next week, where I'll be away from games for 8 whole days. My most precious hobby has been ripped from me and there's nothing I can do about it other than try to substitute other hobbies for it. I pulled out Final Hour and have been playing through that for the past two nights, but it's not the same thing.

Number four is probably the biggest stressor, but it feels like the smallest because I can't quantify it. I haven't slept with my CPAP machine for the past two nights. Even though I *think* I feel fine, I'm probably running on fumes on some level. I have a perpetual headache, the brain fog is starting to creep in, and I definitely have a shorter temper. Although that last one might also be the cumulative stress of the past couple days weighing down on me. That's the thing, we're still living in a pandemic and I'm planning a big life transformation. Anyone would be stressed. At least we don't have to worry about sending my kid to school this year. At least we have plenty of food. At least we have places to go if being here becomes completely unlivable. We have safety nets we can take advantage of, but that doesn't help the falling feeling.

I suppose this is a thing I've always known about myself. I'm really strong, so long as the "equilibrium" of my normal live isn't disturbed. So long as I get three meals a day, a decent night's sleep, and time for things I like to do, I can weather just about anything. But if some of those get taken away, I fall apart. I hate this. I just want our power to come back on...
