---
title: Why Play if You're Not Having Fun?
category: rant
---
I'm in a downward spiral of negativity and it's affecting my productivity.

So some of my coworkers have been playing this custom-made card game for as long as I've worked here. Literally every day, I see them playing it. They actually got some money together and had it professionally printed and distributed. They gave my lunch table a copy, and I was really looking forward to trying it out. I love games (in case that wasn't obvious) and I'm constantly looking for more entertaining and social ways to spend my breaks.

So we tried it out today, for the second time. I honestly don't understand what's happening with my lunch group. It wasn't any fun interacting with them today. Some of them kept complaining about how unfun the game was, but refused to stop playing. All they did was sit there and complain about not being able to see any strategy to it. I'm like, it's your first day playing and our second. We're trying to explain it to you, and I know we're doing it badly, but if it's frustrating you, then just stop playing. Don't sit there and suffer through it while complaining the whole time. As I write that out, it sounds kind of hypocritical. My second-biggest pet peeve is when I'm just starting a game and I'm playing with someone who knows the rules inside and out and they use a rule I don't know about or understand to take advantage of me.

Another member of the group kept interjecting while we were explaining the rules by saying "It's just like Setback." It took him 4 attempts before I practically yelled at him, "Stop saying that like it's obvious. None of us knows/remembers how to play Setback." And that activated my biggest pet peeve: someone making fun of me and feigning disbelief when I don't know something in pop culture that they think I should know, simply because they thought it'd be popular enough to have 100% saturation. "Who hasn't played Setback?" you ask, obviously not absolutely everyone and there's a non-zero chance you'll run into someone who hasn't played it, you asshole.

The actual conversation never actually got that far, but that's where my mind has gone with imagining the conversation and I can't seem to pull it out. I'm just being reminded of all the times in the past when I was reminded that my lunch group is a bunch of cynical assholes who hate their jobs. Sometimes, I want to be genuinely happy for something and not have to be happy at the expense of something.

I'm just so frustrated I don't know what to do. Maybe tomorrow will be better.
