---
title: Home Sick
category: general
---
Bored at home and trying (sort of) to be creative.

This is probably the first time that I've used my laptop while in bed and felt actually okay with it. Now that my laptop actually runs at a reasonable rate and I can actually do things with it, I keep looking for more ways to use it. I'm mostly used to the embedded UI for Git in Atom now, although it has an annoying tendancy to not pick up changes I make to CSV files until I edit a different file type. That's probably a consequence of me using an Atom package to edit them in a grid view rather than install an office spreadsheet product to do it. I only have 19.9GB of free space on this hard disk so I want to stretch it as far as I can. That said, I did just spend a few minutes looking around the app center for games...

I've made some good progress on my Hybrids Weave playset. It's official title now is Sia Malak, which is Gaelic for "six curses". I'm probably going to work that into the lore a little, maybe have the ruling body of the city be "Michael and the Six Curses" and have a representative from each of the 6 subdivisions of the city be on the council. I've finished filling in Locations, Talents, and Flaws for the set. That leaves Backgrounds, Signature Moves, Items, NPCs, Enemies, Plot Twists, and Bosses. I'll probably continue to focus on the player-facing things to give Monocle time to finally release the 2020 ruleset changes that will change a bunch of things again.

I experienced two symptoms of illness that I never have before yesterday: weakness and confusion. I noticed I was dropping things a lot yesterday. It wasn't that I couldn't grasp, hold, and manipulate things. My limbs still had strength and coordination. It's just that I had to concentrate more to do it. I had to grip something harder than I thought to actually grasp it enough not to drop it. Then, by the time I had dinner, I was so mentally exhausted that it was hard to follow conversations and form sentences. I was just barely following what my wife was saying during dinner. Despite that, I actually managed to play D&D. It got a little better after that, but I think that used up the entirety of my remaining energy. I crashed into bed *hard* after that was over.

My goal today is just to recover enough energy to play volleyball tonight. We've been off of that for three weeks and I can't wait anymore.
