---
title: Looking Up
category: general
---
Life is looking pretty good right about now. For me, at least.

The rest of the world...no so much. The US is slipping back (if it ever was actually moving forward, that is) on containing things. If we weren't the laughing stock of the world before, we absolutely are now. Most other countries have closed their borders to us. An American passport isn't worth anything anymore. We're a petri dish of mismanaged and unruly leaders, and we've done a horrible job of containing this damned pandemic. Our leaders are pushing to reopen schools when they themselves aren't comfortable sending their kids back. The government continues to funnel all of its funding into our police departments, crying out that without that funding, the police will not be able to do their jobs. All the while, our teachers are busting their asses trying to come up with curriculums for students all across the financial spectrum that are both affordable and adhere to the CDC guidelines for reopening during this pandemic. The CDC has been taken over by the federal government, so now we can't even trust the data and guidelines coming out of the very institution designed to handle this sort of crisis. I feel like the federal government has abandoned us, except for the new federal military police that has started showing up in dissenting cities. I can't believe what kind of a country we've turned into.... I can't wait for November, but I'm also terrified of it. Given the screwed up nature of our election system, the pandemic, the measures being taken to prevent mail-in voting, and the lack of a strong candidate to oppose Trump, I'm scared that we're heading into another four years of hell.

Alright, that's enough doom and gloom for this post. I just needed to get all that out before starting on the good stuff.

We've definitely settled into an equilibrium with this whole quarantine thing. We still get bouts of depression, but they're not as bad as they used to be. We still miss seeing actual people, but we've found some good outlets. My wife just hosted essentially a virtual renaissance faire masquerade show livestream. Despite being a stark reminder of what we **should** be doing this time of year, it was still a refreshing breeze in an otherwise stagnant home.

I'm waist-deep into the 250 Box challenge. I should get a count of that... 110 on my desktop and... 82 on my laptop for a total of... 192 boxes. Only 58 left to go!! Before I can move on to more interesting parts of the tutorial again. I started in on my new (larger) sketchbook, just doing some automatic drawing, which I recently learned was a thing. Where you just let your hand draw what it wants. You usually wind up with some sort of eldritch monstrosity, but it's relaxing and nice. I apparently can't stop talking about a sticker that I found while cleaning my office yesterday. I got a luchador-styled sticker of Octocat from GitHub and stuck it on my sketchbook. I find it pretty hilarious that I'm putting a programming mascot on an art book, just because of the perceived stereotypical animosity between art and science, I suppose. It's really only funny to just me, but I enjoy it and don't particularly care what other people think of it.

I'm pouring more of my energy into prepping for my D&D campaign. I *might* be putting a little too much energy into the first session or two, but that stops today and I move on to chapter two.... maybe. I think I need one more fleshed-out NPC for the players to interact with while they're in prison. THEN I'll be done... and now we're done with chapter one. I'm basing my layout for all of this on the module's I've read for the Aliens RPG, which were the first modules I've read, actually. So I have a settings, the NPCs, and a series of events that are supposed to take place over the course of three nights. What happens in between those events will be up to the players, and a few are completely optional depending on time and player behavior. I'm **really** excited about this!!

I finished the outline of all elements of Sia Malak too, so I have a well of inspiration to draw from that for my campaign too. The next step for that is to add descriptions to everything and then I can attempt to alpha test it with actual players! That's going to be seriously enjoyable too.

This coming weekend is GenCon Online, which I'm also really looking forward to. Almost 72 hours of straight board game playing, all online, almost all in games I've never played before. Unfortunately, no one else I know is going to this, but what's a convention for other than to make new friends? Not that I'll have a whole lot of time to solidify these connections, since I'm predicting that everyone will sign off basically as soon as the games are done... but whatever, it's a convention and I'm excited to go. I also actually start my D&D campaign this Sunday!

But the single most exciting thing of them all. My wife is releasing her book on Amazon this weekend!! Words cannot express how happy I am that she's taking this step. It's only her second release, she's self publishing, and has done next to zero marketing, but I still believe it will sell well. At the very least, she'll be able to call it "finished" at long last and focus on other projects. I still can't believe her kickstarter was fully funded in less than a week **AND** ended up meeting it's goal twice over! She has some seriously supportive friends and she creates amazing work and I can't wait for the world to see it too.
