---
title: Frozen III
category: tabletop
---
It's that time again! We're about to start playing through D&D's new module, Rime of the Frost Maiden. So it's time for a new character!!

I know I want to play a physical character. I'm thinking either Fighter, Bard, or Warlock this time. The campaign is mostly ice and cold themed, so I might go with a Silver Dragonborn (although I might drop that if everyone else picks that, just to have some variety). Considering that I don't know what any of the other players want to play, I might defer this choice until I can see if we have any gaps. Just the name and background are probably enough.

Now a name... I just finished Carrion, but nothing in there actually has a name. I've been playing Fall Guys a lot, but again, nothing in there has a name worth taking. Yakuza 0 is next on the list, but I don't really want to take a name from there, they're all too obviously Japanese, and I like my names to come from obscure characters. Sammy's been playing a lot of Spyro, but I don't actually know any of the characters in that. FFXIV is still on the table, but I haven't done an actual story mission in a long time, so characters are few and far between nowadays, at least that I can remember. Styx is still installed on my machine, but I don't really remember any of the characters from that. I have been watching a handful of clips from The Boys and Vinland Saga. Let's see what they have to offer. The main character in Vinland Saga is Thorfinn, which is a pretty cool name. Other than Billy Butcher and Hughie Campbell, The Boys doesn't have much else either, other than obvious superhero names like The Deep, Maeve, and Homelander. Demon Slayer has the obviously Japanese problem again. I wonder who the characters are in Control. Broderick Northmoor, Raya Underhill, Simon Arish. You know, I've never seen anyone play a female dragonborn before, Raya Northmoor? But... nah, that doesn't feel right at the moment. Arish Northmoor? Eh, that first name is a little hard to say. I really like that last name though. Raya Northmoor is starting to grow on me, even if I'm planning on playing a male character.

So, Raya Northmoor, the silver dragonborn fighter. What is your background?

What do we know about the setting? The northern reaches of the Icewind Dale has been stuck in perpetual night and winter for two years. Terrible things lurk under the ice. The setting is harsh and unforgiving, so someone cynical probably. We've got some suggested backgrounds. The ones that call to me are Criminal, Outlander, and Sailor. I think if I'm a Fighter, I'll be a Sailor. If I'm a Bard, I'll be a Criminal. If I'm a Warlock, I'll be an Outlander. Nah... too much work to come up with three separate backstories. I'll just be a Sailor no matter what. Raya was always the enforcer on whatever ship he's on. Believing in honest work, Raya made sure everyone always pulled their weight, or he made sure they went hungry that night. But he's not beyond making exceptions when someone is really hurting for a good meal. He believes that a good, warm meal can make anyone feel better. He's definitely well-suited to be a second-in-command, but he will not hesitate to take leadership if there is a gap. He is not a long-term thinker, and can only really think about the current job or the current problems. Raya isn't in debt, and doesn't have a drinking problem or any major character flaws other than his short-sightedness, but he's willing to go along with a group if he believes that it's for the good of other people. He believes that everyone should have the means to live a good life, but that a good life involves work. He abhors laziness in all its forms.

Raya Northmoor, silver dragonborn fighter sailor, who values hard work and fair shares, hates laziness and making the hard decisions. Yay!!
