---
title: Hope's Last Day
category: tabletop
---
I think we have one more session in the mini-module I'm running in the Alien RPG world. The group is one door away from getting to the shuttle and getting off the planet. Part of me wanted to have the "captain" NPC I've been playing as order the group to explore the rest of the base and look for other survivors. I knew that there was only one more they could find, but it would also unnecessarily stretch the module out to a possible fourth session and I wanted to wrap this up a little faster than that. I have one more wrench to throw at them that's not strictly in the module, and one final wrench that is. I'm really excited to see how things play out. There hasn't been much character interaction so far. Too much pressure from actual enemies and not enough time or hooks for the players to really lean in to their motivations, which I'm a little disappointed at, but that's why I picked this mini-module to run first instead of the bigger Chariot of the Gods module that I also have.

I'm not sure what I want to do after this. Whether I want to let the system rest for a while, and fall into the possibility that I may never pick it up again, to actually try to get a campaign of Chariot of the Gods going earlier in the evening with different players, or attempt to put together an actual long-running campaign. From what I can read, campaign mode lends itself really well to the West Marches style of gaming, where the mission setup can work in self-contained little chunks that a variety of people can go on. The differentiating parts of characters don't really make them any more or less suited to things, which means that most missions can work reasonably well with any combination of crew.

I'd have to get a lot more confident in the system and figure out more about how to run it digitally if I wanted to run my own campaign. There might be a place where we can put character sheets online. I think I saw someone do it on roll20 or something. What I have works okay, but it's like going back to the days when I was running my Weave campaigns in Iron & Salt completely through Discord and sending text files around. Having the character builder website made things soooooo much easier. And after playing a dozen or so sessions of D&D using DNDBeyond, I don't think I could ever go back to analog unless the entire game was in-person **and** analog. Either the entire experience is digital, or none of it should be. It just gets unnecessarily harder to manage both digital and analog content, other than extremely transient content that don't have to be seen to be kept track of, like dice rolls. Maps and character placement, character stats and notes, and campaign notes have to all be digital for me if you're not there in person already.

That's enough of that rant....

I just hope my players are enjoying themselves. I'd really like the opportunity to try out a long-form campaign in this system. Something to DM that isn't completely off-the-cuff improvisation like Weave. Something I can actually craft and write around my players. I haven't done that in years. I think it's about time to see if the training I've done with Weave has paid off.
