---
title: How the Internet Works
category: web development
---
I was part of a couple interviews at my company several months ago. Most of the candidates were fresh-out-of-college kids, who were nervous as hell and broke down a little under the pressure of the interview. That was pretty striking to me. I didn't tell anyone at the time, but that was only the second time I had been in the judges seat. I had given a few promotion tests while I was still training in judo, and I knew what nerves would make a person forget, but the thing with our dojo was that we also had complete control over the students' learning process and we *knew* when they were ready. That wasn't the case with these interviews.

But that's not really my point here. My co-interviewers asked a question, a seemingly basic one, during most of the interviews. *Can you tell me how the Internet works?* Or some variation of that. I've been watching a lot of TED talks lately during quarantine, and I've ended up thinking about how I would answer that question. I've made a few posts so far about the wonders of the Internet and how it's helped me and a lot of people I know deal with this crisis. With my experience, I could probably give a fairly in-depth answer to this question, so I thought I would give it a try. Maybe, by the end of this, I'll have determined whether or not this is a fair question to ask someone who just graduated with a fresh comp-sci degree.

---

So, how does the Internet work? What actually happens when a person turns on their computer, opens their favorite browser, types in an address, and hits Enter? The first thing to know is that the Internet is a communications web. Millions of computers are sending and receiving information along this web. Nearly all the communication around this web consists of a request and a response, usually between a person and a machine. So the person pressing Enter in their browser is submitting a *request* to the internet. "I want to see www.worldofgoo.com please." What happens next? Your browser sends out a request to a thing called a Domain Name System (DNS). Your browser knows where these are. These are the address books of the Internet. At some point, the creator of worldofgoo.com went to a Domain Name Registrar and had this conversation:

"I'll pay you this much money every year if you enter worldofgoo.com into your database"    
"Ok, where should it go?"    
"{IP ADDRESS}"    
"Ok, your website is registered and we're now directing traffic to {IP ADDRESS}"    
"Thanks"

Ok, so the magic of the IP Address is something that I don't fully understand, but I do know that, once the request that the user submitted gets to this point, it can take the IP Address given to it by the DNS, and find the machine out there that has the content for worldofgoo.com on it. The request travels through the Internet to this machine, we call it a server at this point because the point of it is to "serve" content to users. The server is set up to listen for requests coming from people like this user, so it's ready to receive them. The server receives the request, and then it examines the software registered on its hard disk to see which thing the request is asking for. A server is able to host multiple websites, after all. Maybe worldofgoo.com shares hosting space with randomdice.com. Either way, the request is passed into the server to an application or website running on it. Once the request gets to the application, it is examined. Is the user requesting anything special? Are they including any additional data in their request? Do they have a marker telling the server that they are logged in and are able to access certain protected pages? In this case, a lot of these properties are inferred by standards of how the web works. For one, the fact that the user just typed in an address and hit Enter is represented by the *type* of request. This request is known as a GET request, and appropriately, it's used to retrieve content without altering any data. The other basic type of request is a POST request, which usually involves sending data to be processed on the server. Something like a login or signup form will use a POST request to send your data to the server and enter you into a database or grant you a pass key that you can use to say you're a recognized user.

In this case, the server determines that this user wants to get whatever content is registered to be returned to them on the home page of worldofgoo.com. So the application responsible for the content of worldofgoo.com assembles the home page, maybe it goes and gets some stuff from a database (the home page for worldofgoo.com happens to have reviews for the game, which are probably in a database somewhere), and then it returns the assembled home page through the Internet in the form of the response mentioned earlier. The response can take many forms, but the most common one the average user browsing the internet will run into is a text document written in HyperText Markup Language, or HTML. The content of the text file is send back to the user (the user's address is included in the request) and the user's browser receives it.

But what happens then? Clearly the home page for worldofgoo.com has more than just text on it? Well, we've covered how the Internet works in the previous paragraphs, and I don't want this to get too long, so we'll leave the explanation for how browsers work for another post.

Thank you for coming to my TED Talk.
