---
title: What I Want
category: general
---
I have to get this written down and codified before I forget about it and it loses its chance to affect my life.

I think I know what I really want to do with my life. I want to work in education.

It just took the right series of videos watched in the right order for me to reach this conclusion. Of course, I don't know if I'm actually going to upend my current career prospects in order to pursue this, but I feel like I just reached the culmination of a whole bunch of things and my mind is reeling.

First, there's a quote from an anime that I've watched over and over again by this point called Haikyu. It's a relatively simple story about a high school boys' volleyball team that falls into the "character drama" genre of sports anime, rather than the "superpowers" genre. The manager of the team is graduating that year and works to find her replacement. Her replacement is this girl who never really wanted anything or had any aspirations for her life. She was resigned to be a "Villager B", a background character, for her entire life. And to have this beautiful upperclassman actually request something of her was overwhelming, but she doesn't think she deserves to work for this team because everyone else is so passionate about playing and succeeding as a team. The upperclassman manager says, "I don't think you need a lot of passion to start something. Sometimes the things we love the most, we started doing them on a whim, out of a minor sense of curiosity." That opened me up to quite a lot of new possibilities. I started looking for other opportunities where I normally wouldn't look, or at least thinking about looking for them. I realized that I didn't need to be heavily invested in something **before** I started in it.

Second, I had already seen a couple talks about depression and the problems of my generation, how we're the "middle child" and how we're always searching for some intangible "meaning" in our lives. I find plenty of meaning in my social and love life. I love being a husband and a father. I love being a good friend. The one area of my life that I don't find meaning in is my career. I realized today that all the jobs I've had, I've applied to with the idea of "throw as many applications at the wall as you can and see what sticks." The good thing about that is the very high success rate. I've landed two well-paying jobs in my trade and have made enough money to live comfortably. But one job was supporting a company that made jet engines, and the other is helping other people sell tickets to events. Neither job ever had me actually working *with* the central part of the industry I was supposed to be a part of.

So I started thinking, with a brain open to new possibilities and seriously considering my desires and what actually makes me happy. I realized that I am completely fascinated with this concept of learning as play, of "tricking" someone into learning. I've talked at length with (more like "at") people about how video games have gotten very good at tricking their players into learning how they work without them realizing it. A video game's primary purpose is to draw in and entertain players, but in order to live in the world of a video game, you have to understand its rules and how to navigate it. A lot of research has been put into this, because it's the biggest obstacle between the game and the players (and their money). Games used to not have space for this sort of thing, so it came with a book to teach the player. I was one of the rare few who read the books cover to cover multiple times. Later, games got bigger, and the idea of the tutorial levels were introduced. These levels would pause mid-action to show the player a text bubble explaining how something worked or how to navigate something. These proved to be unengaging for pretty obvious reasons, but the biggest of which was that it didn't feel like actually playing the game. It wasn't much better than reading through the book, only you couldn't skip it in most cases. But then there are games that get it right. They hide a tutorial in their opening few levels. One of the best examples of this is Portal. Almost the entire first half of the game is continuously introducing the player to new concepts and new rules and presenting them as new and interesting puzzles for the player to solve. By the time you get to the midway point and have the pivotal "escape," the game, both literally and metaphorically, is done teaching you and lets you loose into the "real" game: the escape from the constant testing by an insane and murderous AI.

So now, what does this mean to me? I'm a programmer, fascinated with how games can teach players about how the games themselves work. I want to try using my programming to create experiences for people that trick them into learning something. I want to see if there's a career here that I can find meaning in.
