---
title: Happiest Day for a Developer Dad
category: game development
---
Today just became the happiest day of my career as a game developer and as a father.

I spent about 2 days dreaming up this simple boucing "catch the letters" game. Sort of as a warm-up since I think I'm about to enter another period where I'm really in to game development, but mostly because my three-year-old son has been showing more interest in my video game playing.

I've started letting him use the controller (actually plugged into the game, har har). I'll find a game with a small amount of visual feedback, no timer, and few consequences, and just let him run around and experiment. His favorite right now is Ori and the Blind Forest or the sequel. It's pretty, has a few safe areas where he can run around and not have things happen for "no reason," and doesn't have any consequences for dying a lot. I won't lose any progress or items and he can't ruin a playthrough by spending all my money on stuff.

Since I am a programmer, it wasn't too difficult to work up the motivation to build a quick little game for him. You're a little red ball that can jump and bounce around. Random letters of the alphabet will appear in the sky. There'll be a particle explosion and a "yay" sound effect when you hit one, and the next one will appear a few seconds later. I cannot even begin to tell you how happy he was the first time he hit a letter, and how happy I was to see him so happy. It didn't take long for him to get the hang of moving and jumping at the same time. One of the most rudimentary skills in console gaming is learning how to use both hands at the same time, much like playing piano, I'm starting to recall.

So he loved it, but he still enjoyed putting it down and going outside to play with his ball. We're not doing all that much to ration his screen time. We believe that being comfortable in front of a screen is going to be a very important life skill when he's older, but we're making sure that he gets plenty of time playing with his physical toys, both alone and with us. We read him a physical book (or three) every night. He does get a bit of screen time at bedtime, but that's to have grandma and grandpa read to him over video chat, since the pandemic has meant that we can't go see them.

Now I'm trying to think up other ideas for simple games for him. What extremely rudimentary concepts could I build a "game" around? They'd have to adhere to my rules: nothing should move on the screen except for the player and things directly interected with by the player, there should be no cuts (meaning no dying and resetting), and there should be no "unforseen consequences", meaning no timer and no enemies. With this, we're covering running and jumping. Part of me wants to try a menu-based game, like identifying the shapes or something. He can't read, so a lot of that is out. He still has a hard time with the matching games, so I'm not sure if he'll be ready for that. Maybe I'm still thinking too goal-oriented. This letter catching game doesn't involve any thinking. The letters are just there because he's familiar with them. It might be enough to start introducing some static obstacles to the current game instead. Something like other platforms or making the letter move around the screen. I could show all the letters at once and only give a reward when he hits them in order. I don't want to add any more complicated obstacles, like spinning walls, spikes, or springs. I don't think he's ready for stuff like that.

Maybe I should just be happy with what he's got for now, and see where his development takes him. I'm sure he'll be ready for the more complicated stuff before too long, and then I won't be able to keep up anymore. I'll have to switch to published games again. Like that's a bad thing...
