---
title: Heisenberg
category: tabletop
---
I'm well on my way towards turning Kuno Canavan into the next drug kingpin of the Shards.

...in my D&D campaign, of course.

I'm mostly just posting here to track my progress.

I've made two new personal contacts in the Shards, one is a drug dealer named Valeriy who sells a variety of drugs. I bought a sample pack from him/her that I plan on using in my alchemical research into creating a new drug to storm the market with. The other contact is an elven mercenary who enjoys betting on fights and things named Rotthin. He sees me as his "lucky bookie" since betting through me has made him quite a bit of cash. I've also gotten in good with Madeline, the local magic item shop owner who seems like a crazy cat lady, but is more than she seems. I'm not sure if I'll be able to leverage her for anything, but considering how much effort the DMs have put into protecting her from our random party mischief, she seems like she'll be sticking around for a while. I still have Katalina as well, but she's stationed as a clerk at the Bank and is keeping tabs on large withdrawals and deposits for me. So my network is slowly growing.

As for other players, I have Kaz in my corner at least. Atreyu knows of my plans, has elected not to take part since it violates his personal code, but will stay out of my way and keep my secrets. I had planned on having Atreyu start building the list of contacts in the drug underworld that I could use as a distribution network, so that's a bust. I'll either have to do that myself, conscript one of the other PCs to do it, or build my relationship with my existing contacts and have them do it. I'm using Kaz as a resource gatherer. I can do a little with the drugs I already have, but I'm predicting that when I compare the drugs I have with the resources Kaz is able to pull together, I'm going to find that most of the drugs used here are completely natural rather than processed in any way. Chewing on this leaf will calm you down, sucking on this puffer fish will make you hallucinate, etc. I'm looking to synthesize my own drug and prove that my education wasn't a waste.

Unfortunately, there's very little I can do just carrying around the supplies with me. I have a backpack and a pouch of holding, but about the only "permanent" residence we have is our ship. I need a laboratory to work in, and that requires either a whole lot of magic, or purchasing an actual house somewhere. I sort of understand that the life of a pirate doesn't lend itself well to having a dwelling anywhere, so I'm toying with the idea of having a reinforced room built into the ship, but that will cost about as much as the ship itself, so that'll have to wait until we have a lot more money. I suppose I could ask around, and see if there's anyone who wouldn't mind putting me up as a boarder for a few weeks so they can leave me alone to my experiments. I, the player, am aware of how that'll make Kuno look to the other characters, but I'm not sure if Kuno would think of that. He's smart, but I don't want to make him **too** smart.

So what's next? I had already planned on giving the DMs a break and either focus on experimenting where I can or generally participating in the main story. Above all right now, Kuno needs more money. So it'll be missions for a little while, and experimenting during the downtime. Once I actually have a drug that meets my specifications, I can start seriously exploring how to sell it. And then the *real* fun will begin. I expect I'm going to bring in a lot of coin and a **lot** of conflict, which is exactly what I'm hoping for. Bwahahaha!!
