---
title: Gencon Online 2020
category: tabletop
---
Yesterday was my last day of Gencon Online 2020, my first 100% online convention, my second-ever GenCon experience, and likely the first and only convention I will attend this year (thanks, COVID). I had a complete blast!

Gencon's unique method of handling events and the nature of tabletop gaming in general lent itself extremely well to going 100% online this year. The actual staff of Gencon itself didn't have to do anything other than provide a place for events to be listed, host a handful of convention-specific events, and provide merch to buy off their website (which would have been the case any other year anyway). Gencon just put up the Event Signups a few months ago, vendors and designers signed up to host games they could and provide their own platforms for playing them, and Gencon would handle the listing, searching, and selling tickets for them. So, I put together my wish-list, paid around $30 total for my entire catalog, and away we went!! I was a couple hours late to actual event registration, so I didn't get into the one thing I really wanted to, Tales from the Red Dragon Inn, an adventure game based on the characters for one of our favorite tavern-based board games. But I did get into my other most-wanted event, the First Exposure Playtesting program, which I'll talk about a little later.

---

Day 1 Events: The Kids Aren't Alright, Red Dragon Inn: New Character Showcase, and First Exposure Playtest: The Stifling Dark. The Kids Aren't Alright was a gumshoe adventure in a world similar to that of the X-Men. A terrible event caused around 1% of the population to develop mutant superpowers. These powers were quickly researched and heavily cataloged by law enforcement and organized into a diagram that aids in profiling. We played as a squad of detectives investigating the death of a prominent lawyer's son. His death was caused by falling from a great height onto a car. It was really fun. The final solution to the case was a pretty interesting plot twist, although the actual investigation might have been a little better. Red Dragon Inn was fun, as always. It was my first experience with Tabletop Simulator. It's quirky and you have to be careful playing in it, but it was a lot of fun. I played as the new character Roxana, the adventuring chef. We lost to Evil Pooky, the alternate-reality version of my current favorite character, Pooky. The Stifling Dark was a game in development similar to Dead by Daylight. A group of survivors is wandering around a saw mill with a stalker/killer, trying to assemble enough parts of one of the potential escape methods to get away. I got stabbed to death, and was entirely prepared to sit out for 30 minutes while the rest of the players played through the rest of the game. Then the GMs handed me the "apparition rules" and I got to keep playing as a ghost, dropping subtle help to my friends. When it was all over, we offered some good feedback. I recommended that the designers check out Arkham Horror: Final Hour, specifically for it's method for dealing with games with fewer players. It's designed for 4 players, but has rules for 3, 2, and even 1. The designers liked that and promised to go check it out. 9/10 would play again.

---

Day 2 Events: Mission to Planet Hexx, What Gooey Webs we Weave, and Lost Souls. Mission to Planet Hexx was a strange mix of mechanics from Betrayal and Unstable Unicorns, but set in space. We took turns placing hex markers on the board, constructing our solar system, encountering aliens, and doing research to attempt to complete our mission logs. It was fun, but we had a power gamer in our midst, who really didn't like when a card was played that swapped all the progress he had made towards his mission log with someone who had made no progress. When the player complained about game balance, the GM defended his decision to put that card in the game because there were dozens of ways to counter it. Meanwhile, I'm thinking to myself that the person is taking this game way too seriously. When you play a game like Fluxx, Exploding Kittens, Munchkin, or Unstable Unicorns, you have to be expecting that your best laid plans could be completely ruined by one powerful card played by someone else. It's true that a card like that will make it impossible for you to win, but games like these are so random that you have to expect that. If you go into it with that mindset, then you're not the target audience for this game. What Gooey Webs we Weave was my first D&D experience of the weekend. I signed up for it kind of expecting to play as gummy bears or gelatinous cubes or something. Turns out that Gooey Cube is the name of the company that created the custom world we played in. We played through a fairly generic dungeon crawling adventure with spiders and treasure, but the NPCs and pre-gen PCs were still interesting. I picked a character who was a custom class, an Agent of Jinxx, just to see how it would work. It took me a little while to figure out that I was a weird combination of a Bard and Rogue. My character was mostly Bard outside of battle, with a high charisma and specializing in skills like Intimidation and Insight, but was more Rogue in combat, with Opportune Strike and Trickster's Poison. The lore material for this setting mentioned that magic has been corrupted, but that didn't play at all into our session, which was disappointing. I might give the rest of the material a read through to get some more inspiration for my own campaign. Lost Souls was also really enjoyable. We role-played as a party of ghosts trying to build up enough good karma by saving lost souls to get into heaven. We had very limited ability to affect the material world and had to be really creative. Most of my powers were centered on mobility and scaring people. I couldn't really communicate with anyone living other than scaring them. That meant I was left out of most encounters until the very end, but I managed to pull off a couple really good scares near the end. Someone mentioned that this felt kind of like playing through the plot of Beetlejuice. It's a pretty apt comparison. Lots and lots of fun.

Day 3 Events: Under Falling Skies, Witchborn, and Improvised D&D (along with Session 0 of my own campaign). This day was kind of a dud until the end. Under Falling Skies was a single-player game a little like Space Invaders that got shoe-horned into being a 3 person coorporative game where all we did was discuss strategy. We won, but it's not the kind of game I'd keep in my games closet. Witchborn was a war game. I've played through Starcraft and Starcraft 2 multiple times, so I have an idea how free-roaming squad tactics games work. I played one physical war game in middle school and I don't really remember anything about it. This particular session was set up with 4 player slots, I was the fifth person to sign up, and the group of 4 insisted on playing together, so that left me to play with one of the GMs. I thrashed him, but mostly due to his poor choice of race and extreme bad luck. Overall, I'm glad I tried it, but it definitely doesn't interest me in the slightest. Improvised D&D had the most potential out of anything I signed up for, and it definitely lived up to it. We brought level 1 characters and picked a starting city on the Forgotten Realms map at random. We, again, went on a relatively vanilla journey through a cave to retrieve an elven artifact, but the roleplaying in this party was sooooo much better than Gooey. I created Peren, an elven ranger who knows nothing about the outside world and is better at playing hooky than anything else. The elders of his woodland tribe told him that if he has so much free time, he should go into the world and make the tribe famous. In their hearts, the elders just wanted Peren out of their hair. They were sick of his troublemaker's nature and didn't have any faith that he'd survive whatever trouble he got into. Turns out they were right. Our first encounter was a pair of crocodiles that promptly killed Peren. I was quickly revived and we made our way into the elven tomb. Of course, being intensely curious and having no sense of caution, I often volunteered to be the guinea pig who touched the magical items first. I managed to survive everything and actually learn a good deal of information about the puzzles and artifacts. We had our final battle, and everyone went through a portal into the Faewild. Overall, it was a great experience and an excellent way to end the convention for me.

But my day wasn't over, My own campaign, which I'm now calling House of Z, had its Session 0 last night. The original objectives would be to finalize character creation, test everyone's tech, decide on an initial adventure, and set miscellaneous expectations for things like attendance. Due to everyone being really excited about this, most of that was taken care of beforehand. Everyone came in with a good idea for their character, the tech test took only a few minutes, and I already have the first chapter of the adventure written. So, we talked a little about how this would go, I quashed what I thought would be an expectation based on the campaign pitch the party choose (they picked Prison Break, and I had to tell them that actually breaking out of the prison would happen pretty quickly and the rest would be about what happened to the world while the party was in prison), and then we started playing. Everyone introduced their characters, and they roleplayed against my NPCs for a little while before the characters went to sleep for the night and we called it an end to Session 0. We meet again in 2 weeks and everyone is really excited to be playing and socializing again. I'm really happy that I'm getting to provide this for people. D&D (and roleplaying in general) is such a great remote social activity, which is something we sorely need right now.

I also really **really** like working on my laptop now. When I go on vacation next week, I'm probably going to spend a lot of time here, working on Sia Malak, House of Z, and my art. It won't even matter if the internet is spotty there. Git will just track my changes that I make locally and I can hit one button when I have internet back to save all my changes to my repository.
