---
title: Control
category: gaming
---
I finished [Control](https://controlgame.com/) this morning. It was my first game by Remedy Entertainment. I had heard of Alan Wake before, but didn't have a whole lot of interest in playing it, probably because I found the Zero Punctuation review of it first and decided it was a worse clone of Silent Hill or something. I think that was a mistake.

Control was really good. It was recommended to me by one of my friends after I posted about being bored and surfing the [SCP Foundation website](http://www.scpwiki.com/). I like spending time there. There's a lot of creative things cataloged. If you don't know, the SCP Foundation is a "fake" website for a company whose purpose is to locate, catalog, and secure supernatural items and creatures before they can do harm to the world. Some examples include a pendant that gradually warps the wearer's personality until it becomes that of a famous classical composer named Henry, a soda fountain that will produce any liquid you desire (including blood, magma, and "the greatest drink ever"), a skeletal crocodile-thing that cannot be killed and hates humanity, a person with a mansion inside their nose, a phone that always connects to a home in 1938, and my personal favorite, SCP-3000, a 1000km-long aquatic eel in the Indian Ocean that eats memories. The basic story of Control is that you are Jesse, and you have come to the SCP Headquarters (named the Federal Bureau of Control or FBC) in search of your brother. You become bound to one of the items in containment, called the Service Weapon (a gun that can change forms and reload on its own), which automatically makes you the Director of the FBC (because of course it does). You then embark on a journey through the twisting hallways and departments of the FBC Headquarters, a supernatural item in it's own right called The Oldest House, searching for clues as to where your brother might be, re-containing items that "escape", and dealing with the Hiss, an evil supernatural force leaking into The Oldest House through a portal opened by one of the other items in containment.

The game shines with creativity in the supernatural items you encounter. A ship anchor that makes copies of the nearest object (which happens to be a clock in this case, leading to an entire department renamed "Clocks"), a rubber duck that follows you around, a mirror that shows the world as **it** wants it to exist, a refrigerator with an ancient Lovecraftian entity living inside it that will kill you if no one's looking at it, a traffic light that actually plays "Red Light Green Light" with you, and many more. I thought it was going to channel Megaman a little early on when the first couple items give you enhanced powers, but they were actually given by the mysterious Board. That, plus your increasing clearance level, made the game have a Metroidvania feel to it, which is always good.

I bought Control Ultimate Edition, which I had forgotten about until I stumbled into a strange area called Investigations and my spidey-sense started tingling. I got the impression that I was on a massive side quest, and that it was too big to have been included in the game at release. Turns out I had stumbled into expansion content. That was a fun ride. It reframed the events of Alan Wake as an Altered World Event (an event where a supernatural item is manifested and affects the world) which was catalogued and contained by the FBC, only to have the main culprit (the main antagonist of Alan Wake) become corrupted by the Hiss and come back as a side boss for Jesse to deal with.

The thing that might turn people off of Control is that it does the Bioshock/DarkSouls thing, where all the most interesting tidbits and worldbuilding are in item descriptions, audio logs, and written reports that are strewn about the world. Since Bioshock and Dark Souls occupy space in my top 5 favorite games of all time, you can imagine how much I liked that about Control. Some people don't like to interrupt the pacing of a game to read words, but given the right environment, I find it actually adds to the immersion. Setting Control in what is essentially an office building gives a perfect excuse to find written reports with interesting information on them all over the place.

I learned that Remedy took a big hint from the fans of Alan Wake and included another rocking sequence of awesomeness in Control. In Alan Wake, it was defending the music stage with spotlights and fireworks. In Control, it was the Ashtray Maze:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nudSXUMBEV4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Now I'm off to enjoy either Cloudpunk or Hades. But probably catching up on FFXIV first.
