---
title: Talking Day
category: general
---
I think I need to take a couple days off from FFXIV. Or at least take the mornings off. I don't know. I haven't been able to focus on work very much the past couple days. It's most definitely a combination of lack of sleep from staying up too late playing and spending my early mental energy playing before work. I'm not really doing anything time sensitive and we're between content patches. My only real goal is to get every class to 80. That has no timeline or limit except for the next expansion and I have plenty of time before that.

I'm writing this because I'm much more aware of my own mental state the past few days. Part of continuing to watch those DID videos, I suppose. I remember this happening to me back when I was really into FFXIV. After playing it for a few months, I would play it every morning and run at least one dungeon each time. That was incredibly draining and left me wanting for mental processing energy during the day. I got my MCH up to 80 the other day and started on BRD this morning. Maybe that's why. Switching classes like that after playing as SCH during our treasure map hunt the other night really stressed my brain out. I suppose another thing I could do is switch to a less stressful game... lol... like the Witcher or Yakuza.

The most interesting part of today was that I had no problem actually articulating things. I just couldn't wrap my head around complex programming problems. It's like the logic portion of my brain was exhausted, the part that keeps track of multiple things at once and balances efficiency with speed and power, but the social portion of my brain that doesn't have to keep track of very much yet still has to follow a conversation and think of all the angles, was completely fine. I would think that I'd be too exhausted to do anything close to thinking today, but all I want to do is go home and talk to someone. Like, a lot. I want to debate the inner workings of the mind of Geralt of Rivia. I want to talk about how Brandon Sanderson writes climaxes and how they all kind of feel the same. I want to talk about drawing techniques and how I can figure out why my borders take up too much space but the drawing looks terrible without them. I want to argue why You're Gonna Go Far Kid by The Offspring is a song about the anti-christ. I want someone to help me build lore for Sia Malak so I can come up with non-player characters to populate the world with. I just don't want to talk about games or programming. Actually, no. I do want to talk about games and programming. A lot. I just want to talk about something. I feel like I haven't talked in days right now. Even as I'm writing this, I was writing really slowly for the first few paragraphs, but now I'm topping out in words-per-minute. It's like I've opened the thought floodgates and unlocked the part of my brain that isn't tired at all. The part that's actually been resting, left alone and unused, for days or weeks. I get a little bit of an outlet during lunch, but nearly all of my on-the-job communication is through text chat. I want a nice, long human interaction. A real one. Where I don't have to worry about my fingers getting tired or waiting for responses.

So tonight, no FFXIV unless I restrict myself to a class I'm really familiar with and make sure I'm in bed by 11. I'll focus on drawing and hanging out with my wife and son. I'll also take the next few mornings off from FFXIV and either relax and draw or play something else. I cultivated this entirely new hobby for times like this. Time to make use of it.
