---
title: Our Journey has Begun
category: art
---
I was going to say that I'm going to have to create a new "art" category for this site, before remembering that I just haven't been using it.

I got a drawing tablet! I already had an old Wacom...something or other, but the battery in the stylus leaked, and my computer won't recognize the tablet itself anymore. So I ordered a new Wacom One tablet. It's tiny and pretty cheap, but it's pressure sensitive and the stylus doesn't require batteries! I still don't know if I'm ready to make the transition to digital art, but I'm going to get my tools together and start playing around in them, reading a few tutorials, and seeing how well I can get things to work.

I usually go to GIMP to get my drawings out, but all I really needed it for was layers and transparency. Everything I've needed art for so far could have been done in Paint if it has those capabilities. I spent a little bit of time learning the shortcuts so GIMP would be easier to use, but I never actually used it to draw anything, just manipulate images around. I suppose that's what it's good for, considering it's supposed to be marketed as an alternative to Photoshop, the king of all image manipulation programs.

I solicited some recommendations from my artist friends. I was concerned because Clip Studio Paint was on sale for half price until the next morning, and if it got overwhelming recommendations, I was going to pick it up. I had searched around a little for which programs I could use on Linux, and both that catalog and a couple recommendations from my friends mentioned a program called Krita. Unfortunately, the Linux side of things was a bit of a bust, since I'd have to jump through a bunch more hoops to get my tablet to work on my laptop, but I went ahead and installed Krita on my desktop and gave it a whirl. I don't think I've used it enough to give a good opinion, but it seems solid enough. The right-click menu that brings up the color-picker and brush selector is really neat. After some finicking, I installed the driver for my tablet and got it hooked up with pressure sensitivity, which wasn't really a thing I thought I'd need until I started sketching some stuff. I'm excited to see how this turns out, although I think I'm starting to get a little hobby burnout, which means it's time to switch gears back to piano for a couple days.

My drawings have definitely improved. I'm taking less time on more complicated pieces, my shading is getting better, and I have more patience to go through a drawing and look at all the details. I'm not sure what my next step should be. I've gone back to the online course I was taking, but that doesn't really coach you on what to practice. I think the next step is to reduce the amount of "stuff" I take from my reference pictures. Right now, I'm basically making direct copies of pictures. My next step should probably be to take only the pose, or only the character design, and change something else. I'm working on a sketch of Crash Bandicoot right now. Maybe I can draw him in a different pose, or with different clothes, or with a fish head, I dunno. That's probably a good direction to go in.
