---
title: End of Todo List
category: general
---
I'm here because I'm bored again. We're almost half way through week....7 of social distancing. I've had a talk with my wife about whether we're going to get on the bandwagon of a "phased return" like the rest of the country. We both basically agreed that we'll each pick one or two people per person in our family that we can visit once our state declares itself to be in Phase One of the country's "phased lockdown release schedule." That basically means that, once our state has had declining rates of infection and hospitalization for 14 days, then we, as a family, can visit up to 6 people. We're definitely including my parents in that number. We've missed seeing them here, and I know they've missed seeing their grandson. My wife and I already picked our one visit. Now it's just a matter of keeping ourselves above water and seeing what time will tell.

I've been doing pretty good with myself. I was always an introvert. I've spent the past couple years trying to break out of that and be more extroverted, but it's not too much of a burden on me to switch back to that. I distinctly recall one summer vacation where I basically never left my room. Actually, it might have just been a long weekend, like Easter Break or something. The point is, I used to be able to live in front of my games, and I can do so again. I certainly have enough of a backlog to keep me occupied. And if that wasn't enough, I have a ton of friends who play tabletop games online to keep me socialized. Not to mention, I really love spending time with my son. I worry about his development a little, since he's getting zero socialization other than grandma and grandpa reading to him via video call every night, but he's picking up more and more words and his sentences are getting a little longer (it's just one word to two, but hey, progress).

But I'm just in a good place emotionally. I'm watching the rest of the world fall apart around me. Everyone's going bonkers and has a different idea of what to do. The list of symptoms for the pandemic keeps going up, along with the deaths and hospitalizations. I'm just hoping that we don't get bit by the Picard idiom, "It's possible to do everything right and still lose. That's life." We're doing everything right for the moment. We're only going out for food once every two weeks or so plus the occasional visit to the dump. We always wear masks when we're out. But no one knows whether that's enough. There's all sorts of conflicting reports on how this virus spreads. We're not sure if it's fully airborne, but people are treating it like it is.

And oh...my...god. I just saw a report that there's a scammer out there sending out fake stimulus checks to elderly people. They probably have something in them that says, "Just go here and input your information and we'll send you your stimulus check." What kind of a world do we live in that people who think up these scams exist? What kind of a broken moral compass do you have to have in order to attempt to deprive a helpless person of their means of survival?

The more I think about it, the more I start trying to apply this sort of behavior to a much bigger picture: why we've never met aliens. It's morbid, but I subscribe to a defeatist theory: it's not possible for a species to attain interstellar travel because the conditions necessary for that to happen are contradictory. First, let's throw out the idea of a species naturally evolving to survive in the vacuum of space. We'll focus solely on what I believe it would take for a species to acquire all it needs in order to construct technology that will take the species to another habitable planet. First, the species must be intelligent and have the capacity to learn and preserve knowledge. That either requires extremely long lifespans or resources and knowledge to record information for future generations. Both are drains on a planet's resources. Second, the species must be able to manipulate its surroundings. Third, the species must be curious and creative. It must be properly motivated to explore space and possess the imagination to see the solution for how to get there. Fourth, the species must survive long enough for this knowledge to bear fruit. And fifth, the place this species calls home must have enough resources to make this possible.

Unfortunately, the third point almost necessitates that a species be made of up individuals with their own thoughts and desires. A collection of individuals is advantageous in early survival because it promotes variety, which increases adaptability to the environment. It means that a handful of things attacking a large group of individuals won't be able to completely eradicate them. But once most of the environmental hazard have been taken care of, the individuals need to unify instead. They need to throw away the characteristics that helped them survive their early generations and put all that manpower together. But if you have individuality, then you'll have dissidents. Individuals who exist solely to drain resources and set the species back. I believe that if you did the math, it is not possible for a planet to exist and have all the characteristics to support life, while also having all the resources a species might need in order to survive long enough to build interstellar travel. As it is, I think we'll wind up having to gut the planet completely in order to build interstellar technology. Even before we get to that point, the planet has to continue to support us until we get there, and I don't think it can even do that. Not to mention that WE have to survive each other long enough to get there. And **THEN**, once we get there, we have to survive each other through the process. I guarantee that once we get to interstellar travel, some individual will put their selfish gain ahead of the species and ruin it for everyone.
