---
title: Content
category: general
---
I'm really content today. It's a long weekend. I'm heading out to see a friend tomorrow, the first face outside my immediate family that I will have seen in months. At the moment, my wife is in the other room playing video games, and my son is sitting next to me, also playing video games. I'm just basking in the glory that is this hobby that I shared with my family. Now, my wife will kill me if she hears me taking all the credit. She was a gamer long before I met her. She was more hardcore than me in some ways. I'm just happy that we have gotten to share this with our son. A lot of you might think that I'm being lax about introducing my son to the wonders of the screen at such a young age, but I don't look at it like that. This is a gateway to me being able to share a hobby that I'm incredibly fond of with him when he's older and has the coordination to be a good second player. When I have a Minecraft server with my son, or when I'm on a Rocket League or Fortnight team with him, or battling it out in space battles, or whatever, I'm going to be the happiest dad on the planet.

Don't get me wrong, we're still making sure he spends plenty of time playing outside and with his physical toys. We don't let him spend all day in front of the screen. I'm just thrilled that he's taking to it so much. I'm basically failing my original plan to have him work his way up through the gaming timeline so he has an appreciation for the classics, but he's playing Ori and the Will of the Wisps, which channels old-school Metroidvania **very** well. So I'm okay with this. He loves the character and is always excited to see Ori on screen. And we have a system. Daddy plays first, makes some progress through the game, then teleports to the main village and hands the controller over. So he learns to share and wait his turn too.

I suppose I should be a little concerned that his favorite thing to do is make Ori stand in the fire until he dies, but maybe not. Ori does make a really cute noise when he gets hurt.

But I'll let him stick with Ori until he gets bored in a few weeks, then I'll find something else that I think he'll like. That's the way he's been with his favorite movies. He'll watch them everyday for 2-3 weeks, then he'll be open to watching something else. Then he'll watch that for 2-3 weeks, and so on. At least it's keeping him occupied with something that doesn't have bullies online. I'm terrified of what will happen when he gets to that stage. I've heard stories about kids getting bullied so badly and being unable to let go of the insults that they just keep engaging and thinking that if they can just come up with an insult good enough, that their tormentor would stop saying mean things to them. The nature of the internet prevents that from happening, and the best thing to do is leave and find somewhere else to have fun. The nice thing about the internet is that there are infinite locations to go to to avoid someone, assuming that the anonymity of the web holds until my son gets to that age...which it might not.
