---
title: Nier Automata
category: gaming
---
The next content patch for Final Fantasy XIV features a crossover with Nier: Automata, which is compelling me to pen down my thoughts on the stereotypical Japanese hack-and-slasher.

Let's just put this out there. I didn't not enjoy playing Nier: Automata. I didn't play the original Nier, and I didn't play Drakengard. I thought I understood what Nier:A was trying to do and I think it did it poorly. I went into the game expecting something akin to Devil May Cry, with stylish and varied combat and some character level progression. I made no assumptions about the story, but given how the game art just oozed Japanese, I expected something obtuse that would make me question existence.

Let's talk about the gameplay. I did not get the varied combat I was expecting. There was the light moveset, and the heavy moveset, and two different ways to combine them. I went with using a light primary weapon to lead into hard hits with the heavy weapon. It seemed like the only choice and nothing about it changed throughout the game. None of the other weapons had any other variety to them, despite being able to "level up" your weapon, all that did was unlock lore about the weapon, which had to do with characters that served no purpose in the world. Coming from Dark Souls, I can appreciate putting lore somewhere like this, but it's supposed to have some relation to the world you're in. Some remnant or sign. But there's nothing. Maybe the lore referenced things from the original Nier game, but that was all lost on me. The hacking gameplay when you play as 9S was enjoyable, but it was a completely different game.

Then there were the villains. Adam & Eve were supposed to be the primary antagonists of the game. I understood that when they were "born" and they escaped. I thought I had killed one of them and the other was going to swear revenge over his corpse. Then two assholes show up from out of nowhere. They have completely different haircuts, they have tattoos, and they can talk. They're not introduced at all. They just show up and start fighting. They have a couple more scenes through the game and I assume they're supposed to be the new antagonists, but I keep wondering what happened to that "new" android that I let get away. 9S eventually calls one of them "Eve" in a cutscene, which was the first time I had heard their name. That made me wonder. It was only when I went and read through the wiki that I found out these two assholes actually were the same androids I had witnessed being born. The one I had stabbed had survived. They had completely changed their look and chosen names that the main characters just *knew* somehow. That disconnect really hurt how much I would enjoy the game. Not to mention that, without the death to motivate Adam, the two of them have no reason to be violent. They're just trying to figure the world out, but they're also choosing to harass and attack 2B and 9S because.... reasons? I didn't understand their motivation at all. I suppose maybe they hadn't even developed the capacity to have a concrete motivation, but that still makes them terrible villains. I likened them to Knives from Trigun a lot, only at least he had a plausible reason to hate humanity. A slight difference in his outlook grew into overwhelming feelings of superiority. One little difference in choices, just like with Dante and Vergil in DMC, is all that divides a hero from a villain.

And the environments. It's difficult to define what I dislike so much about environments like this. I had the same problem when I went back to try Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturn, the Fate/Extra PS3 game, and the One Piece: Pirate Warriors game. There's something about the environment that just irks me. I think it's the incredibly spacious arenas with too few details. Or maybe it's the feature-less-ness of them. I'm trying to think back to other games that had large expanses with little detail that I enjoyed and seeing if I can nail down the differences. I suppose Metal Gear Solid 3 has some of it. But the environment *mattered* there. You had to be aware of every tree and how that affected your line-of-sight. Hellblade had a mix of large expanses and smaller spaces, and I almost had the same problems with the large expanses there too. Maybe it's that the environment feels like it doesn't matter? What other games have I played where the environment truly "didn't matter"? I suppose a lot of the Final Fantasies. 9 and 13 in particular. It mattered less in 10, but it had the good sense to stay out of the way, and the story was interesting too. Although 10 was my least favorite of the recent FFs too. 7 and 8 had compact environments that informed the current situation. You were in a city and it mattered that you were in a city. People reacted as if you were in a city. A civilized environment had civilized people in it, or at least people whose behavior reflected that they were in a city. There were a multitude of shops and other things to do. The country had less of that. There was one merchant and a handful of tents and people were warier about your presence. What other games might fall into this category (this is turning into its own post)? I really liked going through the amusement park in Nier, probably because the environment informed the characters and interactions. The machines there were dressed like carnies and threw confetti around. You had to platform around the roller coaster and over other rides. The environment mattered to the characters and they could react to it. The ruined city where the resistance camp was, and the expansive desert, though, those could have been swapped and nothing would have changed about them. The characters didn't react to their environment as if it was an actual environment. Not to mention that there wasn't really anything there in all that space. I dunno. I feel like I'm a little closer to defining my issues with certain styles of environment, but no closer to being able to explain it to people. In any case, Nier was full of environments I didn't like (except for the Amusement Park).

Finally, the big plot twist. I saw it coming from a thousand miles away. Your organization's motto is "for the glory of mankind" and there isn't a human to be found? None of the main characters even know any humans? Yeah, they're all dead. That lost all meaning right away. If you're going to have a big plot twist like that, maybe make it more of a thing that we're defending the humans. Have some fake orders come from them. Stage a mission where you have to rescue some humans from the machines and they turn out to be fake. Do **something** to perpetuate the ruse. Someone (I'm looking at you, 9S) has asked questions before. Maybe have some "mysterious disappearances" from people who asked questions. If you're going to sell a conspiracy, make sure your readers know the conspiracy matters to your characters. Maybe that's a side effect of writing 2B to be a cold-hearted soldier who follows orders without question. Without questions from the characters, there's no way for the reader to ask their own questions.

I suppose there's something to be said about a game that carries itself by featuring a cute girl in a short skirt "swinging" a huge sword around. Maybe I'm too old to see the appeal of that anymore. I certainly wasn't when I was a teenager. My horny brain would totally buy and play an entire game to oogle a hot main character. I did that with.... hmm.... maybe I didn't. I can't think of a single game that I didn't enjoy playing for the gameplay that I kept playing because a character was hot. Maybe I was more wholesome than I thought.

We'll see how this patch turns out. 2B is just a side character to FFXIV in the patch anyway. I'm more excited about the big raid bosses teased at the end. Brute Justice, Cruise Chaser, and Alexander. Whatever they're going to be, it's going to be pretty epic.
