---
title: More Musings
category: general
---
Now we get to see how this software and my setup handle multiple posts. I'm set up to be so bored that I could cry today. I have practically nothing to do today. At least, nothing that's due for another month. So here I am, getting feelings and things out.

This morning, I looked at my bank statement and saw a charge from my domain provider. I remembered that I haven't actually done anything with my websites for a really long time. As weird as it may be for a web developer to not have their own domain, I marked my calendar for the date when the last cancellation request I put through is supposed to finish so I can go back and completely cancel my contract. I've already downloaded all the files and backed them up on my home server, but there is absolutely no point in me keeping these domains any longer. Their purpose has long dried up. I'll still have the ability to build web sites. I have a number of local server programs that I can use. I think I was scared into registering this domain because I read an article that said domains were disappearing quickly and if you think you'll ever need a personal website in the future, maybe for a portfolio or something, you should get it now. I registered a .info domain, which was a lot cheaper than a .com domain. Since I didn't think I would be using it for a business or anything, I figured this would be alright. Then a year went by, then three, and I didn't use the website for anything other than storing some old projects that I played around with. I haven't fired up my local server in a really long time. Plus, with this site and the amount of free hosted content I have created that's floating around the web, I really have no use for my own private domain. So, come New Year's, I'm cancelling my contract and getting a little more money I can save up every year.

I still have to decide if I want to put anything in the sidebar over there. I imagine this site will kind of just grow organically and I'll come back to it whenever I have the time or desire. It's nice that it's free and fairly easy to manage. I think I'l figure out the issue with the header margins next.