---
title: "Game Experience - Half Life 2"
category: game experience
---

I'm starting to feel like I'm hitting the bottom of the barrel. I'm really struggling to find games that I've played that I have strong memories of. A few of my latest entries were kind of lackluster and were just general ramblings rather than recounting memorable moments from the games I've played.

Oh well, I never intended to put all that much effort into this. Just wanted something to do during spare time when I couldn't be bothered to work on anything else and got sick of YouTube.

Anyway, let's talk about one of the few big ones I have left in my repertoire: Half-Life 2. I mentioned during my Resistance entry that it was the game that really got me started on first-person shooters. That is mostly true. But it was Half-Life 2 (and the Orange Box in general) that really cemented the genre for me. Truth be told, I originally bought the Orange Box just for Portal. I had seen a small tech-demo of Portal's early development and was really intrigued by the concept. So, I bought the Orange Box for PS3 and played through Portal. But that was only 1/5 of the game package and 3 of the other 1/5's shared the title "Half-Life."

I had heard of the Half-Life series before. I remember a particularly gruesome ad in a GamePro magazine of Gordon Freeman killing Master Chief with a crowbar. Back then, I chalked it up as a game that I would never enjoy. It was just in the background, quietly influencing gamers older (and richer) than I was. I didn't realize when I popped the disc in and started it up that I was about to take a vacation into the paradise that PC gaming had been while I was enjoying my PlayStation.

Half-Life immediately defied my expectations by refusing to show me an enemy or hand me a gun until 20 minutes into the game. It gave me a chance to explore what the world had become. I knew that this was a sequel, but I had no knowledge of the events in Half-Life 1. All I knew was that there would be events referenced and characters introduced that I would be expected to know about. I would just have to go along with it. The first thing I noticed as the train pulled into the station in City 17 was that no one noticed that I had literally just appeared out of nowhere. I would later learn that I was wanted by those in power and the rebels had been searching for me for a very long time. Yet, the intro to the game had absolutely no fanfare. None of the other main characters knew I was back until I just about stumbled into their laps on my way to one of the deadliest places in the game. Later, I went back and played the original Half-Life and learned this was par the course for Valve's flagship franchise. The first 20-30 minutes are designed like a horror movie. They establish the status quo of the world in a relaxed setting to allow the audience to get their bearings. This gives all the more power to the inevitable collapse into the nightmare.

The second thing I noticed was that the clocks in the first area had no hands. That was just the first indication of the subtle story-telling I would see throughout the intro that showed just how bad things had gotten for the human race. Very few games I had played up to this point had such attention to detail. I knew I was in for a ride and resolved to keep my eyes open for other similar details.

...is what I'd like to say, but I eventually was just sucked into the story and the environments and completely forgot about the finer details. Which I guess was fine for my first playthrough. I did manage to find the G-Man a couple of times, even if I had no clue who he was or why he was significant enough to put in the intro. I finally realized the size of the game during the first vehicle section with the boat. This was the first time I had to navigate a really large environment in a game from the first-person, as well as the first time that I had to solve long-reaching physics puzzles. I reached the part in the game where the Combine closes the gate on you. You have to park your boat and then spend about half an hour navigating through this building to find a switch that will open the gates. By the time I got through it, I had completely forgotten that I even had the boat and why I had come into the building. That's how much attention-grabbing stuff happened inside the building. It happened to me again during the car section when I had to climb under the bridge to shut the force-field off. It was a whole missing unto itself and I completely forgot that my original goal was just to turn off a force-field so I could resume driving.

One other thing I think that made Half-Life 2 special to me was it was the first time I was completely and totally immersed in the world. Gordon Freeman wasn't so much a character in the world as he was...me. Kudos to Valve for accomplishing what they set out to do when they decided to make Gordon a silent protagonist. I WAS Gordon Freeman. That feeling faded a bit when the game was over and I moved on to Episode 1 and 2, but the main game had me believing that I was right there, fighting aliens, saving the world, and shouldering a role as messiah and "The One Free Man" that I neither wanted nor felt I could bear.