---
title: "Game Experience - Final Fantasy VII"
category: game experience
---
Starting off the new direction with a bang! Final Fantasy VII. Surely, no other single-player JRPG has been so influential to the gaming industry. Released in the US in September of 1997, this game introduced a great number of people (including myself) to the RPG genre and is responsible for one of Square's biggest financial comebacks since the original Final Fantasy was released 10 years before.

Let's see, in 1997 I was...I graduated middle school class of 2000. So that would put me as going in to 6th grade when this game came out. It was the perfect time. I had tried Final Fantasy I several years before, but I wasn't old enough to understand menu-based gameplay. All I had up to that point was Mario and Battletoads. So I knew that, in most NES games, A was jump or confirm and B was "do the fun stuff" (attack). With that in mind, my attempt to play Final Fantasy I amounted to pressing A a bunch of times to get past the pesky menus, then holding left (the direction of the bad guys) and mashing B to make my characters whack them with swords until they disappeared and the victory music played. It was a frustrating experience to say the least and I didn't get very far. In 1997, however, I was at the perfect age for understanding some newer game mechanics.

September of 1997 was also the debut of the North American edition of Playstation Magazine. I had picked up the occasional GamePro issue before this, and one of our local bookstores had a single issue of the UK edition of PSM. When I heard that PSM was coming to North America, I begged my parents for a subscription. I got it. The big draw of the first issue was the new Ghost in the Shell game. Inside the magazine was a small guide to specific sections of a game called Final Fantasy VII. I still had a vague memory of playing Final Fantasy I and when I couldn't own a game, I read up on it. So I read the little guidelet. It mentioned things like raising the Gold Chocobo, getting the Huge Materia, finding Yuffie, and some tips on beating Sephiroth at the end. It was so freakin' cool!!! It was also the first Playstation game I encountered that came on multiple discs. The stage was set, my parents bought it for my birthday, and I embarked on one of the greatest gaming journeys of my life.

For the few of you who haven't played this game (WHY HAVEN'T YOU!!!?), the rest of this will have heavy spoilers. For the rest of you, what follows may seem silly or it may remind you of your own experiences with this amazing game. You have been warned.

The game opens with the camera falling through a starfield for no apparent reason. There's nothing of interest in the night sky until we drop and the scene fades to a girl watching green sparks coming out of some machinery on the wall. She walks toward the camera, and we get an establishing shot of the city of Midgar, a meteor flash, and then the title. I was mesmerized. I had never seen anything so beautiful come out of a computer. The swelling music, the visuals, the rich city life...it was amazing. Then, the camera starts panning into the city again and there are some cuts to a train in motion. A few ragtag characters leap out of the train and take out the guards. Then a large man with a weird looking hand gestures to the train and Cloud, our hero, flips off the train. Then the best thing ever happened. I was given control of my character. What followed was my introduction to a whole new method of story-telling.

A huge part of my immersion and enjoyment into Final Fantasy VII was the music. Final Fantasy VII was the first game I played that had memorable music, melodies that stuck with you and you wanted to hear again and again. I actually started up a boss fight with Active Time Battle turned off so I could listen to the music while I did my homework (and not have my characters die on me). One of my good friends said "Koji Kondo gave games music, but Nobuo Uematsu gave games ballads." I think it's true. I owe a great deal of my enjoyment of this series to this man. I had the rare privilege of seeing him perform One Winged Angel live with the Video Game Orchestra at Anime Boston in 2010. It was an incredible experience.

Looking back through the eyes of a more experienced gamer, I realize that the intro does very little to introduce you to the mechanics and nuances of the game. This was the era of instruction manuals, and I would read them the way normal people read normal books. Absorbing them, reading them over and over again, and searching for that little piece of interesting lore in a footnote or character bio. In-game, however, explanations were sparse to say the least. There's a building in the slums of Midgar with NPCs that explain things like save points, magic, treasure chests, limit breaks, and overworld item pickups to you. It's very easily missed and could leave you lost for the rest of the game. There is one non-skippable section where Barret explains how to use Materia, but it's done through a video showing you how to navigate around the menu. Compared to modern methods of introducing the player to mechanics during gameplay, it's not very good.

My next highlight was near the end of storming the Shinra tower. There is a section there with a two-part boss fight on the elevator. The only tip I had at the time was that mechanical enemies are usually weak against Lightning. Only one of my characters at that point had a Lightning Materia. I was not prepared and could not get past that section. I put the game down for about a month, and then started a new game. This became the first game where I meticulously planned for future battles. This time, at first opportunity, I went and grinding out enough gil to buy three Lightning Materias and a whole stack of Antidotes (the other thing that gave me trouble was all the poison enemies in Shinra tower). The feeling when I finally beat the elevator bosses, made short work of the new Shinra President, and was rewarded with the motorcycle minigame was incredible.

This marked another highlight. I had never encountered a minigame before. The concept of a game-within-a-game was completely new to me. Of course, I knew nothing at the time. I still had snowboarding, submarines, and Gold Saucer to experience. Nowadays, there is a whole slew of "sandbox" games that are little more than a large collection of mini-games and side missions. Putting these minigames into any game with a "world" is almost a given. So much so, that they become stale. Final Fantasy VII not only included mini-games, but it worked them into the main story seamlessly. Gold Saucer is the site of some major story points. While the mini-game arcade might not have story significance, the rest of the amusement part did. You even picked up a new and incredibly significant party member here. Gold Saucer was brilliantly designed.

Now we get to shift gears a little and talk about another groundbreaking thing Final Fantasy VII did. I know it wasn't the first game to do this (not by a long shot), but it was the first game I had ever played that involved the irrecoverable death of a main character: Aerith Gainsborough (or Aeris for the North American translation). On my first playthrough, my party since leaving Midgar consisted of Cloud, Red XIII, and Barret. So I was probably not as attached to Aerith as other players might have been. But I got her during the date in Gold Saucer, so I knew that Cloud was attracted to her. When she left after the Temple of the Ancients (another boss that gave me a lot of trouble), I was just as consumed with finding her as Cloud was. Part of it was that my party no longer felt "complete," but most of it was because I knew that Cloud wouldn't stop until he had her back. Then, after fighting all the way up through Bone Village, trekking through the snowy mountains, almost freezing to death, and discovering the Village of the Ancients, we finally get to see Aerith again, face-to-face. Then, in an incredible twist of fate, Sephiroth descends and murders her. I couldn't believe it. I could not comprehend at my young age that a named character on the side of good could actually die in a game. It just...didn't happen. I know now that there are plenty of examples of this happening in games that came out before 1997, but it's the fact that it was the first time I had experienced it that made it so intense for me. Part of me wanted to shut the game down and never play it again. I prowled the fledgling message boards for secret codes that purportedly brought Aerith back from the dead. I even tried one or two of the more complicated ones. Nothing worked, and I trudged on through the story to see if Cloud could ever find peace after that terrible loss.

Of course, it didn't take long for things to go awry again. Cloud is manipulated into giving Sephiroth the Black Materia, and is lost in the ensuing earthquake. The game picks up again following Tifa and friends trying to find where Cloud ended up. And here we have another first for me. The first time a main character is sidelined and another character takes up leadership of the party. The game didn't feel right anymore. Aerith was gone and now Cloud was too. I had to put it back together. As much as I could. When we finally tracked Cloud down in Mindeel, I was so happy it wasn't even funny.

There were no more highlights for me as far as the main storyline is concerned. I know there were a lot of fights with the Weapons that were now roaming the world, there was a whole thing with acquiring the Huge Materia, and finally taking down Shira. I even wrote complete guides for some of my friends on how to get a Golden Chocobo. Of course, there was the whole plot twist where Cloud wasn't actually in SOLDIER, that Sephiroth was a clone of an interstellar being that wanted to take over the world, and that the WEAPONS were a product of the planet, but I was too young to understand most of that.

No, my final memorable moment was trying to fight this guy. The infamous Emerald Weapon. I had encountered him before when I went to the Sunken Ship to get the Hades Materia. I came out and he was sitting there outside. I encountered him again later on when I needed the submarine for something else. The combination of the underwater lighting and his sheer size was terrifying. Both encounters ended with me surfacing immediately and heading for shore as fast as I could, fearing that he could breach the surface and come after me. Later on, after taking down Sephiroth and reloading my last save file, I resolved to try and take down this green behemoth. This was set to become the most frustrating experience of my gaming career.

Of course, the first several encounters didn't go so well. I had read many guides on what to bring to the fight. I brought Knights of the Round with W-Summon, Mime Materias, and as many Final Attack-Revive combinations as I could bring. But every time I would get halfway through the fight. Emerald would unleash his Ari Tam Storm and decimate my characters. Once or twice, I managed to somewhat recover, but then he'd use it again. This was the fight that finally defeated me. I went to bed crying and didn't pick the game up again for a long time. It wasn't until many years later that I learned the trick to the fight. I was much older and more experienced. I was trying out a new way of playing Final Fantasy VII that didn't involve loading up my characters with as many Materia as they could carry. It actually gave them a pretty significant basic attack boost. So, when I tried taking on Emerald Weapon again, I brought Barret with me. He only had an HP Boost Materia to make sure he had 9999 HP, and a Mime Materia. I fought hard, and when Ari Tam Storm came again, I learned two incredible secrets. One was that Ari Tam Storm does 1111 damage for every Materia that character has, and the other was the existence of the Lucky 7777 mechanic. Barret now had exactly 7777 HP, which means he went into berserk mode and continuously dealt 7777 damage to Emerald Weapon until it died. A small part of me felt cheated. I did win with an exploit, after all. But mostly, all the years of frustration finally melted away as I looked upon my fallen opponent. I had done it. I had beaten Emerald Weapon. And on that day, I felt I had finally beaten Final Fantasy VII.

So that's my story. Those are the highlights of playing the game that turned me into a hardcore gamer. It was on the long side, but it's a 60 hour game. My sister actually still has a save file with a maxed out timer at 99:59:59. We have no idea how long she's actually been playing. She actually went and tried to find out if there was some secret thing you unlocked if you bred two Golden Chocobos together. There isn't. You actually get a basic chocobo with one of the worst ranks, probably due to all the in-breeding. Next time, my story will probably be shorter.