---
title: Productivity and Pokemon
category: gaming
---
Another day with very little to do after 3:00. I just remembered another task that I could do, and it took me less than 10 minutes to finish it. I'm not even sure what to call this post yet, maybe I'll come up with a title as I write. That's what happened to yesterday's post, after all.

There goes another task that I didn't think I would be doing. It didn't keep me occupied for very long though. We're just about to hit the point where the devs do more waiting on testers than actual development. This stop-and-go process is still pretty brutal. I appreciate having the space to work on bugs as they come in, but there are long stretches where I feel like I'm not being productive enough. The problem is that it's bad practice to continue developing right up until release. Even though tons of programmers end up doing that, it's a sure-fire way to push out buggy software. Just look at the video game industry. More and more games are being put out with day 0 patches to fix issues that made it in to the release. But what can you do. At the end of the day, the most important thing to the people who control the industry is making money. Damage dealers in an MMO don't output any damage when they're dead, and developers don't make games if they can't eat.

Pokemon Go was announced this morning. This marks another point where I've followed a developer through a turning point in their career. I discovered Niantic Studios through their flagship game, Ingress, a few months ago. I'm currently a level 6 ENL player in a beehive full of high level RES players. So I'm having a lot of fun. Niantic split from Google a few weeks back, and there was a lot of concern on whether the company would be able to continue supporting a game with no monetization of any form on this scale. I don't know if Niantic makes any money through the major Anamoly events or something, but there's no question that they were getting much of their backing from Google, their primary sponsor. It turns out that Nintendo has stepped up to the plate and are leveraging Niantic's mobile GPS knowhow to make something they've probably always wanted to make: a real-world, massively-multiplayer online version of Pokemon.

Of course, the trailer shows far more things to generate hype than the game will actually deliver, but Ingress did the same thing. The trailer shows massive particle effects surrounding historic landmarks and places of interest. Of course that's not what the game shows you. Everything in the game is contained in your scanner. It's not augmenting the reality you can see, it's just telling you that something's there that you can't see and allowing you to interact with it. The trailer for Pokemon Go showed us cgi pokemon hiding in the bushes and around buildings. It showed hundreds of people gathering in Times Square to battle Mewtwo. It actually showed the many pokemon flying out of people's phones to battle Mewtwo in the sky. I think this is giving people the wrong idea. The last few seconds of the trailer actually show gameplay footage, and it's little more than a couple pokemon in a grassland being hit with pokeballs. The trailer shows people participating in the three staples of the Pokemon games: capturing, trading, and fighting. But it shows it through the cgi effects and actors, not throgh the actual gameplay.

So, I'm hyped, but only because I know what Niantic is capable of and the sort of company they are. Other people I've talked to have far less faith in the game as a whole because they have no faith that it will live up to the trailer. I suppose this is another case of me managing my expectations and getting a better experience because of it. Oh well, I'll probably play it if it has the same monetization model as Ingress and if Niantic spends their resources on the right things. A lot of forum threads talking about Ingress have said that Niantic is spending too much money and time on the story and lore of the game. I didn't even know Ingress had a story until I had already been playing for two months. I dug into it a little, but I lost interest quickly. At this point, all Niantic needs is a short framing device that explains why the portals exist and gives a bit of motivation for wanting your faction to control them. Then they can sit back and let the community do the rest of the work.

But I can't really blame them too much. It's possible that the first few people who joined did so because of the story. According to what I've heard, Ingress has three cycles. Whatever that means, we're in the second cycle right now. The game has been around for 3 years. Maybe there were timespans where it looked like the game might fail, and the story was the only thing that kept it alive. Maybe the old-guard at Niantic spend most of their time working on the story and not much else. I don't know. I haven't been involved deeply enough to know whether the game suffers from not having servers powerful enough to handle large-scale events with lots of players. Maybe Pokemon Go won't have this problem. It's another franchise that really only needs a framing device to get the players going, then the community does the rest.