---
title: "Game Experience - Breath of Fire 3"
category: game experience
---
"Examine. Examine! EXAMINE!! LEARN THE DARNED SPELL, RYU!!!"

I always wanted to be a dragon when I was little. I mean, the flying and the breathing fire, the magic, the devil-may-care attitude. It was everything I wanted as a kid. Breath of Fire III came out in 1997, the same year as Final Fantasy VII. The Playstation RPG was riding high and just could not be stopped. Prior to this installment, Breath of Fire was on the Super Nintendo and was enjoying the semi-lit spotlight as "that one RPG that people who play Final Fantasy might have heard of," that put it in the same bucket as the Ys series, Chrono Trigger, and Xenogears. All were amazing games, but were overshadowed by the Square behemoth. This is all just my opinion and what I noticed growing up. That said, I loved this game entirely too much. Especially since I've never tried Breath of Fire I or II. I gave IV a go, but couldn't get into it.

There are going to be pretty heavy spoilers to follow, but the game is almost 20 years old.

Breath of Fire III is a turn-based RPG where you play as Ryu, the last descendent of a race of dragons that (supposedly) threatened to destroy the world thousands of years ago before being killed by the goddess. The opening sequence was pretty confusing for my young brain. You play as a newly hatched dragon whelp who, in its confusion, massacres the workers in the crystal mine where it was born. It's pretty dark for a cartoony game, and you don't get the questions about yourself answered for a long time. After being knocked out and imprisoned, you escape during shipment only to turn into a blue-haired boy and be found in the woods by Rei, a beast-humanoid thief and scavenger covered entirely in yellow fur. Rei and his partner, Teepo, take you into their little band of thieves and take care of you until a botched heist lands you on the bad side of the wrong crowd and you are left to fend for yourself in an unfamiliar city.

Of all the games I've played, this one has the most character progression. In the beginning, you are an uncoordinated child and you swing your sword like one (literally, your character closes his eyes and flails his sword around in the beginning). After a point, you gain confidence and begin swinging your sword with more force. There's even a time-jump that actually ages your characters. I'd never played a game that did that before. All the younger members of your party get older and their battle animations reflect their new maturity. I think that was the part that impressed me the most about this game. The fact that your battle animations change as the game progresses to reflect the growing skill of the characters. It's a brilliant little touch.

Another thing that I really liked about this game was the skill system. Characters could acquire skills in three ways: the standard learn by leveling, be apprenticed to a master, or learn from enemies by "Examining" them. Technically, characters can also learn skills by transferring learned skills from other player characters through the use of Skill Ink. The apprentice-master system and the Examine skill turned this into the second game where I planned out the first 15 levels or so in exhaustive detail to make the next 15 levels that much easier. As soon as I could, I'd apprentice Ryu to the shady wizard character for 2 levels to learn Frost and fight Burn Goos until they taught me Burn. Then I'd switch to the big lumberjack as a master and leave him like that for most of the game. I learned Burn and Frost because the next area after the heist goes wrong has enemies that are really hard to beat without at least one fire spell and one ice spell at your disposal. Ryu was also alone for this part, so you couldn't rely on Teepo, who had filled the role of spell-caster for you so far.

The really awesome thing in this game was the Dragon Transformation. After a certain point, Ryu acquires his first Dragon Gene. He can use that during battle to transform into a fire whelp dragon. You can acquire more and more genes over the course of the game, and Ryu can mix and match up to 3 to transform into different types of dragons. Most of them are the traditional European type dragon seen in this picture, but there were a number of special transformations too. Wildfire was a lightning quick yellow whelp dragon with low HP but an incredibly deadly counter-attack. Warrior looked more like a dragon version of Ryu, a humanoid with horns, wings and a tail. The Warrior had very high attack power. Behemoth and Tiamat absorbed the entire party into one giant dragon with incredibly high HP and defense. The ultimate form was supposedly the Kaiser form, a yellow version of Ryu with boosted stats. The problem was that the Kaiser was berserk and would randomly attack party members. This was another point where my pre-planning came in handy. One of the monsters you run into in the first area uses an attack called Influence that commands the other party members to attack an assigned target. Since certain abilities cause your party members to go berserk in exchange for increased attack power, Influence stops the worst of it from coming back to hit you in the face.

Of course, I can't go on without bringing up the fishing. RPGs of this era seemed to always include really deep side-quests. Final Fantasy VII had chocobo breading, Breath of Fire III had fishing and the faerie village. The village mini-game thing was pretty cool. It was sort of SimCity lite. But the fishing was where it was at. I don't even really remember if it was necessary or beneficial to the main story at all. I just remember it was so much fun.

For me, this game represents the first time I had beaten an RPG without feeling like I had cheesed my way through it. That was one of the biggest shortcomings of Final Fantasy VII and VIII. Once you had the Knights of the Round summon in VII, nothing in the main story could stand against you. And if you had the right party and enough Aura spells stocked up, VIII was an incredible breeze too. Breath of Fire III had no such thing. I fought Myria for over an hour and it was the most intense turn-based combat I had ever been a part of.