---
title: "Game Experience - Critical Depth"
category: game experience
---
The mid to late 90s were an incredible time for the Playstation and a special company called SingleTrac. The company that brought us Twisted Metal 1 and 2 and Jet Moto 1 and 2, four of the most popular Playstation titles, was having a great couple of years. The Twisted Metal franchise is still going "strong" today (cough), and Jet Moto set the stage for anti-grav racing on the Playstation, along with the Wipeout series. Then there was WarHawk. Oh...my...god WarHawk. Now that was a fun game. Unfortunately, the company closed down in 2000 when a group if employees split off to form Incognito Entertainment. So what happened?

In this writer's humble opinion, they made Critical Depth. Take everything you know about Twisted Metal, and put it underwater. That's Critical Depth. It sounds great in theory, but it was kind of a hot mess. It was fun as heck, but a nightmare to control and pretty hard to beat. This is another one that I had to rely on cheats to survive and complete. I blame my young age and impatience for that.

Critical Depth is a demolition derby game with submarines instead of cars. The goal of each level is not to just destroy all the other subs, but to gather 5 alien pods to activate the portal to the next level. This formula can make for some very intense capture-the-flag type scenarios with one player carefully hoarding all the pods, then the others descending on him as he makes a break for the exit. The story, such that it was, resembled Twisted Metal. Each playable character has a wish that will be granted in some nefarious or twisted way by the deus ex machina at the end of the game. The Calypso of TM fame is replaced by semi-faceless aliens, and your wish is only granted the way you'd like it if you're evil in the first place.

I only remember a few of the endings. the island natives who wish that people would stop mining their island for petroleum or something. They get put on a tiny island that is the only landmass on the entire planet. The Soviets who want to bring communism to the world are given a machine that "makes everyone part of the same community" by literally sewing them together. The bloodthirsty pirate gets a place in the alien's armada, since all he wanted was a really good fight. And there was a fat dude who was obsessed with being smarter than anyone else. So the aliens gave him a brain that would support that. Unfortunately, he would only survive after the operation for a few minutes. But during that time, he'd be the smartest man in the universe.

The thing that made Critical Depth great for me was the environments. With 3D arenas, the SingleTrac team could really stretch their level design to the limits. There were underwater cities, loads of hidden reefs (that I would shamelessly camp in), and even modern landmarks that had sunk to the ocean bottom. It was beautiful, in a late 90s old-skool 3D sort of way. The one I remember most looked like a sunken New York City. It had buildings with suspiciously large hallways and windows just big enough for the submarines to fit through. Plus, there were a host of other secret areas.