---
title: "Game Experience - Left 4 Dead"
category: game experience
---
Left 4 Dead was the reason I downloaded and installed Steam. My introduction to the wonder that is Valve had previously been the Orange Box for PS3, and I primarily bought that for Portal. I had seen an early tech demo for Portal online and was extremely excited about it. I had only heard of the Half-Life franchise when I saw it on a few covers of GamePro years earlier. Prior to that, the only FPS I had beaten was Halo: CE for PC. What I'm trying to say is that I was a fledgling PC gamer and my knowledge of Valve was just getting started when Left 4 Dead came out.

I had some money to spare back then, so I took the plunge and bought the Valve Complete Pack on Steam. $100 for the entire Half-Life series, the entire Counter Strike series, the entire Team Fortress series, Day of Defeat, and Portal. 21 games back then, not too shabby. Valve has since added Counter Strike: Global Offensive, Portal 2, and Left 4 Dead 2. It was an amazing second introduction to the world of Valve. I was incredibly excited for Left 4 Dead. The hype surrounding the AI Director, the Co-Op mechanics, and the amazing trailer did their job on me.

Left 4 Dead is a co-op FPS about four survivors navigating around a zombie-infested world using their wits, working together, and firing more bullets than your average navy squad during an operation. There's Bill, the ex-green-beret with a major chip on his shoulder, Zoey, the zombie movie enthusiast, Louis, the help desk office worker with a never-ending positive attitude, and Francis, the semi-hardened biker who's good with a shotgun and better with the bad jokes. The most surprising thing for me was that Valve managed to make the it fairly believable that these four completely different people could actually work together to survive a zombie apocalypse. In any major horror movie, Francis and Bill would have been at each others throats the entire movie and one of them would end up dead by the others hand before the movie was over.

There are two parts of this game that make it different from other co-op zombie survival games: the special zombies and the AI Director. There were 5 special zombies when the game came out: Smoker, Hunter, Boomer, Witch, and Tank. The Smoker could ensnare a survivor from a distance and had to be killed by a different survivor in order to free its victim. The Hunter could leap long distances and pounce on its victim, also necessitating another survivor stepping in to dispatch it. The Boomer could vomit on the survivors, clouding their vision and drawing a new zombie horde down on them. Upon death, the Boomer would explode, drenching nearby survivors in the same vomit. The Witch would sit still or wander around very slowly, but once startled, would single-mindedly go after the survivor who startled her, doing huge amounts of damage until she was taken down or her target died (on harder difficulties, the Witch could kill in one hit). The Tank was the hardest to kill and could throw cars and pieces of pavement at the survivors. All of these together made your survivor friends completely necessary to finish a level, heavily discouraged running off on your own, and made the special zombies all the more scary for the unprepared. I was caught unawares more than once. I would see a Smoker, have a half-second to register that he was going to ensnare me, and then another half-second to realize that the other survivors were busy battling a Tank on the other side of the map. So, I would just have to wait for a slow death as the normal zombies piled up on me while the Smoker held me trapped.

The AI Director was a construct Valve built to keep the game fresh and replayable. It monitors player input to try and determine average mood and tension. Then it spawns zombie hordes, special zombies, and supplies to keep the tension moving at a good and interesting pace. This means that, with a few scripted exceptions, zombies always spawn in different locations. This worked great...for the first 5-6 playthroughs. of a level. After that it gets sort of predictable. Granted, without the AI Director, the game would have next to zero replay value instead of just middling replay value. All told, it was a great positive addition to the experience.

I never got in to the whole multiplayer aspect of the game though. None of my friends played it, so I was stuck with random matches online with players far more skilled and serious than I was (or trolls). After I had my fill of the single-player mode, most of the rest of the world was playing on the hardest difficulty against human-controlled zombies. All the strategies had been figured out and no one used voice chat in random matches. I tried playing it a couple of times, but it was too easily ruined by one trolling survivor who loved friendly fire, two survivors who both thought they knew how to lead the team, or that one AI survivor who just couldn't keep up. I actually played one game where one of the other players was downed a little ways away from the safe area. Rather than just wait for him to die, I went out, killed the horde that was attacking him, and got him on his feet. He responded by gunning me down and then running back into the horde. I would have understood the troll if he gunned me down and then went into the safe house, but he ran away and deliberately got himself killed again. It was the same in Team Fortress 2. At least there you could pick one of the larger games and kinda get lost in your team if you were playing badly. In Left 4 Dead, there was nothing to hide behind. If you weren't as experienced, were having an off day, or were unlucky enough to become the troll's plaything, everyone knew it. I stuck with single-player.

I still think I got my money's worth, even if I only really experienced about half the game. A couple scenes in the game still give me chills. The cornfield is probably the worst in that respect. There are just so many Witches hanging around there. In other areas of the game, you have a rather large line of sight on things running at you, even if they are sometimes around corners. Call it a downfall of setting your game in an urban setting like Philedelphia. Later levels feature the survivors leaving the city after a few botched escape attempts and the game explores a more rural environment. There are fewer tools at the survivors' disposal and many more things for zombies to hide in. The cornfield is about as claustrophobic as the game can get without just surrounding the survivors in fog. The final scene in the airport is another. You have line of sight in almost every direction, but the zombies can come from every direction too, so it's really easy to get cornered or separated from the other survivors. There are a couple of really awesome scenes too. The rooftop of the hospital is one. The little cabin at the end of the forest is another. Truthfully, I remember a lot more of Left 4 Dead 2 than of this game. Mostly because they're completely the same, just with new characters, new maps, and new special zombies (and a killer level at a rock-and-roll concert).

The other thing that makes this franchise so awesome is the expanded lore. Valve has put out a number of comics related to Portal and Team Fortress 2. They released "The Sacrifice: Part 1" in 2010. Among other things, this comic included a brief flashback into the lives of each survivor just before the outbreak occurred. Things like this really serve to breath new life into an otherwise dry world. Prior to this, we could only gleam bits and pieces about the survivors and the world from small quips the survivors made to each other and graffiti left by other survivors. From that, all we knew about the characters was what I said a few paragraphs ago, and we know that the zombie outbreak happened like most other zombie outbreaks. The virus (if it was a virus) didn't even have a name. The Sacrifice is a gripping piece of literature. You can read it for free <a href="http://www.l4d.com/comic/">here</a>.

I just went back and re-read the sacrifice and discovered something new about the lore. It turns out that the gene that makes the survivors immune is inherited from the father's side. During the outbreak, Zoey had a real touching moment with her father where he's been bit and he reminds her of that scene in all the zombie movies where someone gets bit and the others have to put him down before he turns. I damn teared up reading that part again.

Left 4 Dead was a great concept that made an awesome game with good replay value and an average multiplayer experience. Maybe I should re-install this sometime...