---
title: Getting Better
category: general
---
I almost got a full night's sleep last night. Part of that might be because I went to bed at midnight instead of 10, but I woke up and actually felt pretty good. Until I took a shower, that is. For some reason, maybe because I didn't take a full and proper shower, I felt like crap the rest of the morning. My eyes stung and my nose hurt. My back is still making me uncomfortable and I would give just about anything to be able to lay my head back against my chair again.

Today was still pretty boring though. I had a task in mind for today that I thought would take me a while. It only took me a few minutes. So much for that.

Tonight, we're going to take on the bug monster again. I feel like this is going to be the first fight that forces our group to get serious. We're actually planning offline, calling people out for stupid stuff, yelling at each other in the heat of battle, and genuinely trying to understand where things went wrong. This fight is heavily scripted, which means it's all just a matter of memorizing the patterns. The trouble we've been having stems from two problems. Our damage isn't high enough during the add phase all the time (although it has been getting better) and we're not able to practice the later phases. The latter is doubly frustrustrating because we still don't have the first few phases down perfectly yet, so occasional dumb wipes happen that are made all the more frustrating because we lose out on practising the later phases when that happens. We still haven't actually tackled Double Prey yet. Although I'm fairly certain that me and the MT will know what to do when that comes around. Server lag has also been a big problem. People see themselves in front of each other, which means that we end up playing chicken a lot and everyone thinks they're winning. I'm trying to be more vocal about stuff, mostly just to be more talkative and have more fun with the group. It's not really that fun when everyone stays silent. That's a double-edged sword, however. Near the end of the night, I'll get frustrated, just like everyone else, and, being more vocal, I'm more likely to call people out on stuff in not-nice ways.

Just between you and me, I think I'm better than our MT. Some of our early wipes were because he got countered and tried too hard to recover, spinning the boss, and preventing our damage dealers from doing damage. He also keeps trying to stand with me during Prey when we shouldn't be sharing damage. But I'm not one to rock the boat. I'm going to continue to trust that our group is observient enough to either improve or change the arrangement.

I really hope we down this tonight. We're taking next week off and I'm not going to have much reason to log in after Friday or so. I'll cap my tomes and red scrips, and then I'll take a vacation and either play Dark Souls or finish HxH. This is the first real wall we've run in to as a group. We'll beat it eventually, I have no doubt. The question is whether it will cement us as a group, or tear us apart.