---
title: "Game Experience - Dark Cloud"
category: game experience
---
Ah, Dark Cloud. Another game from the "golden age" of early Playstation 2. This was also a very underrated title. This was the time of Zone of the Enders, Bloody Roar 3, Twisted Metal: Black, and (sigh) MTV Music Generator. It was the wild west of game development again, and everyone wanted in on this budding new platform.

Dark Cloud is one part dungeon crawler, one part Sim City, and one part crafting. The basic story is that an evil (not-Nazi) general summoned an evil power in order to destroy the world. The Fairy King saved the world by putting all the people and buildings into these little spheres and hiding them in caves and forests. You are given a small jewel that can free them from these spheres and bring them back to the surface. You may even be able to rebuild the world better than it was before. So you trek through randomly generated dungeon floors, collecting new weapons and crafting materials and freeing the people and various bits of their homes from the spheres. You bring them back to the surface and rebuild their homes with all the pieces. If you feel like a completionist, you can talk to the townspeople and see if they have any requests for how they'd like their town rebuilt. Someone wants their window to face the morning sun, someone else wants to be close to the dungeon so they can train on the monsters, someone else wants to be far away from the mayor because his giant windmill keeps her son awake at night, and someone else wants to be in the center of town because why not?

This was a REALLY fun game for its time. The systems were just deep enough to be interesting and the city building mechanic was brand new and exciting, at least to my never-played-sim-city tastes. I had a lot of fun going through the dungeons and exploring every nook and cranny. I didn't have fun with the weapon system at first though. This was the first game I played with a weapon degradation mechanic. Fight for too long without repairing your weapon, and it breaks and disappears forever. Given how large the weapon enhancement system (I hesitate to call it "crafting") goes, that's potentially a lot of time wasted. Thank god for no auto-save.

The city building system was incredible though. You started with a huge open space with just about nothing in it. You retrieved sections of road, rivers, fishing ponds, houses, people, bridges, trees, misc pieces of houses, and windmills or other buildings. Then you played god with the pieces and rearranged the towns as you liked. You had three progress bars for each town: one for how much you retrieved from the dungeon, one for how much you placed on the field, and one for how happy the townspeople were. Filling the first two bars was required to finish the zone and unlock the next one, but you got some hefty bonuses for filling the happiness bar. At its core, the happiness mechanic was one of those logic puzzles where you tried to figure out who should sit next to who at a party. It was just the thing my teenage brain ate for lunch every day.