---
title: "Game Experience - Soul Calibur II"
category: game experience
---
Everyone has their favorite. Any fighting game enthusiast will go on and on about that one installment of a franchise where they got everything right and nothing will ever be the same again. In reality, it's usually that they spent all their time learning the nuances present in one installment and it's too much effort to unlearn those instincts to fit them to the newer installments. That was Soul Calibur II for me. I pour over guides and practiced endlessly. Then, when Soul Calibur III and IV came out, I was completely lost. How could Namco mess up my formula so badly? Why did they take perfectly good characters and ruin them? The reason is, of course, they didn't. I just didn't want to unlearn what I had spent hours honing.

The Soul Calibur franchise is a series of fighting games. What makes it unique is that it's one of the few fighting games with weapons, and a huge variety of real-world weapons at that. Some of them are a bit of a stretch (I'm looking at your chain-whip-sword, Ivy), but all are based on real life weapons and styles. There's the katana, the straight sword, the quarterstaff, the short sword &amp; shield, the broad axe, the nunchaku, the zweihänder (giant broadsword), the tonfas...you get the idea. What's even more impressive is that each weapon is fairly well balanced against the others. Part of that probably has to do with the even blocking mechanic. You wouldn't really expect someone with nunchakus to be able to block a giant axe swing from a person literally twice their size without any damage, but they can. They can even push back and make the bigger guy stumble. But who cares, right? Soul Calibur was unlike other fighting games in its control scheme as well. Rather than the standard light, medium, and heavy attack buttons, Soul Calibur had horizontal attack, vertical attack, and kick. This made the combat a little more realistic and made it easier to intuit moves from watching other characters. The downside was the lack of those incredibly flashy super-moves one sees in Guilty Gear and Street Fighter. A few characters had them, but only a few.

Soul Calibur II was unique in the franchise because it was the first to feature multi-console releases. Each release had a different extra character included. The GameCube version has Link, the XBox version had Spawn, and the Playstation 2 version had...Heihachi? Talk about throwing a cat in with the wolves. I say that, but Heihachi was one of my favorite characters. I had been a long time Tekken fan before this. The inclusion of Heihachi was one of the main reasons I picked up Soul Calibur II. To their credit, Namco make Heihachi a force to be reckoned with. He now had counters and kept the Tekken trademark 10-hit combos. He made up for his short range with his low-dashing attacks and combos. For the others, I've heard that Link was a welcome addition, although the franchise wasn't as popular with the Nintendo crowd. It was even less popular with the XBox crowd, and Spawn isn't even really from an XBox franchise. He's a comic book character. I heard Namco managed to make him pretty awesome though.

I was a Cervantes player. I loved the undead pirate for his versatility, gun-sword, and because the guide I was reading said he would be one of the most difficult characters to master. I was a real masochist back then. Cervantes also had a few of the flashier super moves in his command list. He could teleport, fire himself across the map, and had a small gun in the hilt of his shorter sword. I practiced for hours, mastering one combo where I would shoot across the map, fire my opponent into the air, turn around with perfect timing, catch my opponent, and shoot them a couple times before throwing them to the ground. The first move in that combo could be cancelled into one of the flashy unblockable moves too. I delighted in changing at the last minute and catching my opponent off-guard.

The other character that I spent hours practicing with was Ivy. Ivy is the other really complicated character to master. Her chain-whip sword has a dizzying variety of stances and transitions, and she's the only one with a move that requires more than 4 button presses. Calamity Symphony and Summon Suffering are two techniques that require 7 button inputs to perform, but are very high damaging throws involving Ivy breaking her sword apart and shredding her opponent with them. This was the first time I heard the term "buffering." Buffering is a fighting game mechanic that allows players to press other inputs while working their way through an input combo and still have the combo register. This meant that I could press the first two inputs for Calamity Symphony, press an attack button, press another two inputs, another attack button, then do the last inputs and Calamity Symphony would erupt out of my seemingly random combo. If done right, my opponent would thing that I pressed 7 buttons in less than a second. In reality, the inputs started more than 20 seconds ago. It was an incredible rush every time I pulled it off. Of course, the other reason I liked Ivy was because I was a teenager with raging hormones and Ivy was...well...Ivy.

My love of this series lasted until I bought Soul Calibur IV. I played for a bit, then I took a real close look at the characters. Then I realized that I couldn't take that close of a look or I would get hurt. Cervantes looked like a kraken spawn, Siegfried looked like he walked out of an ice glacier, Astaroth looked like he walked out of volcanic rock, and Ivy was practically naked. It was too much. I put the series down and went back to Blazblue. But I will always remember Soul Calibur II. The series has only gone downhill since then ;)