---
title: Depressing Online Communities
category: rant
---
I dislike arguing on the internet. It's most of the reason I don't partake in it. I usually end up reading toxic arguments to see if anything interesting happens, but it almost always devolves into name-calling, tiny-hole poking, and definition wars. Not to mention that it's impossible to read tone in text and really easy for someone to backpedal their argument by claiming they were being sarcastic. People are too lazy to cite sources, too quick to pass off their opinions as facts, and then revert them back to opinions when they are proven factually wrong. It is not an opinion if it is factually wrong. I can have the opinion that falling off a 300ft cliff with no safety net or harness is actually really good for your health, but that would make me a complete idiot. That idea is factually and provably wrong.

I just got done reading a thread called "Class customization fallacy." The person was trying to make the argument that the developers and designers of a game should update it to include skill trees and branching classes to add depth and diversity to the game. Immediately, the old argument came up that customizing your classes is just a false choice. The playerbase as a whole will theorycraft a bit, decide on a few optimal skill arrangements, and then the community as a whole will not accept anything less than that from other players. It's a sad state of things, but I agree with the defense. Even if the theorycrafters and playerbase are dead wrong, individual players who have found something that works a little better will have to fight an uphill battle to get accepted into groups. That sort of exclusion robs a multiplayer game of its fun. And anything that does that should either be discarded or added with *careful* consideration.

Alright, so its an old argument but a polite one. There are some good ideas on both sides. But then someone gets confused and tries to poke a hole in the argument by claiming that this isn't what the word "fallacy" means. The next 3 pages are now arguing over a definition, and the original poster is trying to defend his usage as if the person attacking his definition could topple his whole argument. What the everloving crap!? I had an argument with someone in my guild who was trying to put a static together, but wasn't making any effort to organize anything. Our first raid night, I waited around for 2 hours for us to start, only to find out that the leader was waiting for someone who went off to do other things because they didn't know we were waiting for them. Then he couldn't decide what we were going to do for the night. I ended up making a decision that he didn't like, but he didn't voice his opinion until the fight was over. So, I asked him if he'd like me to take a step back and let him lead, *and he wanted us to define "raidleader" before going on!!* When I defined it for him, he tried to say that the guild leader fit that role. I knew I wasn't going to get my point across, so I left the group and it folded soon after. Of course, I found out after the organizer had left the guild that English was his second language. Which explains why he never talked in text or voice chat. But seriously, if you're not prepared to take on the responsibility of leading, why try to lead in the first place? I could see it if leadership were forced on you, but he volunteered to organize this thing, then didn't actually *do* anything to organize it.

One of these days I'm going to learn my lesson and just play the game instead of reading other peoples' complaints about it. My time on the official forums and the subReddit have done almost nothing but attempt to lower my opinion of the game. I fucking love this game and I will probably continue to play it for a long time. I like my guild, we have fun together, even though I haven't been with them for years and years. I don't even care that I spend most of my time grinding. If I get tired of it, I have other things to do, but I will keep coming back and I won't fault anyone for finding it boring and leaving. What I will fault them for is complaining that its boring and getting angry when other people don't find it as boring as they do. Seriously. If nothing about the game appeals to you, why are you playing it? I don't find anything appealing about most professional sports, so *I don't play them.* I used to play Magic: The Gathering, but then I lost interest. So I *stopped playing.* It's not a hard concept.

Then again, maybe I'm being hypocritical. Another way to take my argument is that I'm against criticism as a whole. One might assume that I think that a person shouldn't say anything bad about an activity, they should just leave and ignore it completely. And that's not true. I understand the need for criticism. But good criticism comes tempered with an understanding on an activity's purpose. I read an article where a movie critic complained that Michael Bay made his films too simple and too reliant on big effects and explosions. The critic might have been right, but I don't think that makes it a valid criticism. Michael Bay isn't *trying* to make his movies deep and thought-provoking. He's making them so that young adults and teenagers can have an exciting time without having to think too much. He specifically said "I make movies for teenage boys. Oh, dear, what a crime..." He understands what he is designing his movies to do, and he knows that they are doing it very well.

So that's my stance. Criticism is a good thing, but only if you are criticising something for not accomplishing what it is designed to do or what the creator intended it to do. This game appeals to people who don't have a lot of time on their hands and don't want to think too much about having the best character build. The mechanics are just complicated enough that the more focused and dedicated players can have fun conquering them, and there's a ton of stuff in the game for the person who can only play a couple hours a week.

Maybe that't the other problem. People don't *want* to only play a couple hours a week for weeks on end to make progress. The argument has come up that more recent updates to the game now promote gold-buying. Really, it's just that players are impatient. It's stupidly easy to make money in this game, but it does take time and a bit of effort. I think that making players more reliant on each other is a good thing too. We got used to the idea that you could be everything and be completely self-sufficient. Now we don't really have that, and I think that's ok.

The last thing I'll complain about is players complaining that there's a lack of content at end-game. It's like we haven't been here before. When the game launched initially, people complained then too, but we didn't know about the development pattern. Then, once about every 6 months, we got a little more content, then a little more, then a little more. The content is coming, and I for one, can't wait.