---
title: "Game Experience - Resistance: Fall of Man"
category: game experience
---
It isn't a stretch to say that this is the game that got me back into first-person shooters. I hadn't really played anything resembling this genre since Doom 2 for the PC. I was much more interested in the racing, fantasy, and fighting games from the golden era of the Playstation 2. What drew me in to this game was the developer and publisher: Insomniac Games. I had really enjoyed their other famous series: Ratchet &amp; Clank. It had fun characters, unique weaponry, and cool environments. This seemed like a real harsh contrast. The studio that put out cartoon characters was going to make a gritty shooter about fighting aliens and the end of the world? But then again, I knew that the Ratchet &amp; Clank series was starting to experiment with more mature looking environments and characters, so I thought "what the hell?" and gave these guys another shot. Man, am I ever glad I did!

At first glance, Resistance: Fall of Man looks like any other FPS with aliens. It knows this and still pulls it off fairly well. Imagine what you'd get if Halo was set during World War I, and that's just about this game. What makes this more appealing is that it does away with some of the staples of Halo: regenerating health and limited carrying capacity. Instead, we have the old-school health kits and all the weapons you could want. Even better, Insomniac Games shines through with their weapon design by giving you a host of cool alien weapondry with unique effects that I haven't seen in any other FPS. Sure, your starter machine gun is fairly standard and you get a generic shotgun later. But the alien weaponry is so much cooler. The basic alien machine gun has an alt fire that tags an enemy. As long as the tag is active, normal shots fired will home in on the tagged enemy. This means you can tag a stronger enemy, duck behind cover, then fire around the cover. The second alien weapon you'll get fires slow-moving shots that actually tunnel through cover, and locking on to an enemy will highlight their silhouette when they duck behind cover. My favorite weapon was the Splitter, which I think you don't get until your second playthrough. Its primary fire just shot out a huge shell that traveled slowly for a few feet before shooting forward at high speed. If you pressed the weapon's alt fire while the shell was moving slowly, it would split in two. You could press alt fire to split the two into four, then four into eight, then finally eight into sixteen. So you had a huge wall of bullets ready to mow down an entire hallway full of enemies. The later games got even more unique.

Another thing I really enjoyed about this was the story. Aliens show up randomly in Russia during WWI and start taking over and terraforming the planet so it's much colder to suit their higher internal temperatures. Fine, fine, it's a typical alien invasion scenario. Time to suit up and kick them off our planet. But then you're captured and taken to a conversion facility full of normal people being held prisoner. Of course you escape, but then if you stop and look at what's going on around you, you can watch normal soldiers being converted into the aliens you've been fighting this whole time. The only actual "aliens" you've encountered so far were the little bugs that infected you after you were captured. After you escape, you start to see alien facilities crop up around the world. You are told by your radio buddy that the buildings aren't being built, but excavated. They were already here, buried deep underground. Weirder and weirder. Weirdest of all, and you only find these if you really look, you encounter corpses of solders in black airtight body armor, completely different than any soldier you've encountered fighting on either side of the war. Most of them still have their radios on and there are encoded messages being broadcast. All of this is pointing to some sort of government experiment regarding something called the Chimera Virus. Around this time, I encountered my first giant enemy, so I didn't have much time to theorize about the black ops soldiers. But I knew this was going to be one hell of a story.

Resistance was a really good series, even though I only played the three from the main series on PS3. To my knowledge, Insomniac never finished up the storyline. Each game ended without really ending. The Chimera are still here and we still don't really know where they came from. Maybe more of the questions have answers in the portable games that came out later, but I was never that fond of my PSP and I never thought FPS games lent themselves well to portable systems. Besides, I got into the Half-Life series soon after this one and could not bring myself to go back to a controller-based FPS. I still go back to this series from time to time. I still discover things I hadn't found before. And the boss fights are still some of the most fun I've had playing video games. This series does giant enemies better than almost anything else I've played before or since, second only to Shadow of the Colossus.