---
title: "Game Experience - Alundra"
category: game experience
---
Ah...Alundra. December of 1997. The golden age of the Playstation.This was a game that my sister became a fan of before I did. She was always more of a fan of the more traditional non-mainstream fantasy games. I was the one who played the more long-standing series. This one, however, I borrowed from her and managed to beat before she did (snicker snicker). I freakin' loved this game and I still tout it as one of the best Zelda-esque games ever.

The gameplay is practically identical to the earlier 2D Legend of Zelda games. You explore a massive overworld with areas that are blocked by impassible obstacles. You complete dungeons and trials sequentially. Each one contains an item that will allow you to overcome a certain type of obstacle in the overworld and progress to a new area and a new dungeon/trial.You had a lifebar (here represented as red diamonds instead of hearts), you could collect money from fallen enemies and treasure chests to buy optional items, and you had a finite number of equipment slots for weapons and other items. Many of the dungeons had puzzles related to switches and pressure plates that had to be solved in order to progress. A standard formula for this era if ever there was one.

The thing that made Alundra really stand out for me was the dark story. I mentioned in my Final Fantasy VII story that I hadn't played any games before that where named characters died and didn't come back. Well, that was par the course in this game. Almost every quest you undertook to save someone's life ended in failure. It was made much worse when the game borrowed from Nightmare on Elm Street and made dreams lethal to the dreamers. In the early part of the game, you discover that you are part of the clan of Elna, a race of Dreamwalkers, who can enter someone else's dream and affect what happens in there. In a world where the gods play a huge role in the lives of everyday people by affecting their dreams, this ability became hugely important to the story. Your journey quickly evolves from helping the residents of this simple village with their troubles to an all-out war with a demon disguised as the patron deity of the village.

With that in mind, my most vivid memories of this game are the deaths. I even forget the names of most of the characters. The first death is fairly inconsequential. He's the village equivalent of a surfer boy who is seduced in his dream by a succubus demon and killed by a giant blob. You have only passing interaction with him before his death, so it didn't hit me that hard when he passed. The first one that really got to me was the village strongman. I remember that he didn't like Alundra at first. He was on the side of people blaming Alundra for the nightmare-induced deaths that plagued the village since the player's arrival. Eventually, he too succumbed to a nightmare. However, rather than die outright when the nightmare was over, it turned him into a werewolf that you had to slay in front of the entire village. The crushing despair hit the village pretty hard then. It hit me even harder when my caretaker was next to succumb. This was a kindly older blacksmith who took you in after your ship wrecked and you washed up on shore at the beginning of the game. This was the man who made most of your equipment and whose bed you borrowed after a long day of adventuring. By the time the villagers told me that he was having a nightmare, the formula was cemented into my mind and I knew what was going to happen. I'm pretty sure I cried when it was over and had one of those moments where you think about shutting down the game and never finishing the story. But I pushed on and defeated Melzas after some rather complex logic puzzles and a really hard switch puzzle that involved the entire final dungeon.

I compare this game to Okami a lot of the time. If you like the gameplay in Okami, then you'll probably like this one too.

<iframe width="320" height="266" class="YOUTUBE-iframe-video" data-thumbnail-src="https://ytimg.googleusercontent.com/vi/skKScoOA3YA/0.jpg" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/skKScoOA3YA?feature=player_embedded" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Also, it still has one of the most kick-ass opening themes I've ever heard.