---
title: "Game Experience - Amnesia: The Dark Descent"
category: game experience
---
I do not like horror, in just about any medium. I do not enjoy being scared. Ghost stories give me nightmares. I used to think it was all horror, so I took a History of Horror class in college in an effort to cure me of my fears and let me enjoy this genre. All it really did was help me categorize it. Now, I can at least enjoy slashers, zombies, vampires (mostly), and serial killers. But the one thing I can't handle is ghosts or things that behave like ghosts. It's the inescapableness of them. Drag Me To Hell gave me nightmares, and that's Sam freakin' Raimi. I love just about all of his other movies. And don't even get me started on The Grudge or Rose Red. Those were the worst of the lot. Prior to playing Amnesia, the only other horror game I played where you don't have a wall of lead bullets between you and the monster was Haunted House for the Atari 2600, and pixels a half-inch across have a really hard time being scary.

This game was my attempt to dive into the deep end of horror gaming. This game was touted as the scariest game of the decade, and I believe it. I watched plenty of videos of other people playing and getting scared, and found a picture someone took of the creepy monsters pulled out and put into regular lighting. I read everything I could about the lore of the game without spoiling too much for myself. And then I dove in.

I'm satisfied to report that, not only did I make it all the way through the game, not only did I go back and replay the game to get the other endings, but I also fired up the game one last time and played through the add-on campaign "Justine" that came with my copy of the main game. The final result: I am still scared witless of this game and others made in the same engine and genre. I will likely never play this game again and will never play its sequel. But I did it, I can say that I did it, and I can share my highlights with the internet.

My first highlight came soon after encountering a monster for the first time. The game does a fair amount of playing with you in the early parts of the game in the form of illusions of the monster. You'll see one just duck out of sight as you turn around. Try to follow it, and it'll just disappear. I don't think anyone else found what I did, but I turned around and the monster was just behind me, staring me down as if he was about to strike, then he disintegrated. Turned to dust and disappeared. I quickly moved on, not wanting to stick around. I went back through the room I had come from and did a double take at the portrait on the wall. You see, when you see this portrait for the first time, it's clearly a noble gentleman with wrinkled but handsome features. If you go back to look at it while your sanity is low (which mine was after my close encounter) it looks like this picture here. I was petrified. The sense that I hadn't really escaped the monster was unbearable and I promptly downed a sanity restoration potion, which restored the portrait to its former normalcy.

My second highlight was probably the best part of the game, according to the community as a while. The dreaded water monster. You could not see this monster as anything other than splashes in the water. You were save while you were standing on boxes and desks in the hallway and rooms where it lurked, but any steps you took in the water got its attention and while you were actually in the water, it could hurt you. I have this thing about predators that live in the water. I will not play Shark Attack or Depth. Other media about underwater predators don't really bother me, but they take on special horror when they're actually coming after me. While I was battling the Amnesia Water Monster, the same feeling of dread came over me as when I think about encountering a hungry shark in its native habitat. I could not get away from this thing fast enough. Truthfully, I was relieved later on. There's a point where, in order to progress, you have to stand in the water turning a very slow crank to open the next door. In order to prevent yourself from being eaten, you have to throw body parts to other corners of the room to distract the water monster. That point broke my immersion enough that I could get my wits under control. It was a game mechanic that I could learn and exploit. In a small way, I had figured out how to fight the monster. Of course, that feeling was immediately quashed when I got the door open and the monster started chasing me in earnest.

By this point, I had developed a system that would likely get me through the game. The game probably has three different levels of intensity. The lowest level where your just exploring fairly well-lit areas looking for clues, the middle level where you know there's something lurking around but it hasn't found you yet, and the highest level where you're being actively chased or dealing directly with something horrible. The game spends a good amount of time at that middle level, which was the hardest for me to deal with. So, when that level came up, I would play for about 15 minutes, which was about all I could stand at once, then go watch an episode of TV, then come back to the game. I don't care if that makes me a wuss, this game is scary!

Another highlight I had was any encounter with the shadow monstrosity that's stalking the castle. I'm not talking about the human-sized monsters that actively chase you. I mean the unseen elder monster that's breaking reality to try to get to you, leaving red goop all over the place. The red goop is kind of cheap as far as game mechanics go. Its only purpose is to give you a reason not to go somewhere until some arbitrary time has passed or some obstacles have been cleared. What I loved about it was the concept. I was really in to Lovecraftian horror when I played this. I loved the idea of a creature that warps our perception of reality just by saying hello. That its existence is so completely incomprehensible that just looking at it is enough to drive a person insane. We know from other clues that this particular creature is actually after you because you stole something from it. But we have no idea how important the orb was to this monster. It could have been its alarm clock for all we know. What we're interpreting as it trying to catch you and murder you could just be its panic at the prospect of not being able to wake up in time for work the next morning. Between the completely alien nature of this Shadow and its subtle reality warping abilities, this thing was one of my favorite parts of the game.

The last highlight I'll talk about was another one unique to my experience. During one of my ventures into one of the castle's basements, I retrieved something from the bottom of a wine cellar (or something) and was headed back to the main lobby of the castle when I discovered a patrolling monster blocking my exit. This was another mechanic that broke my immersion somewhat. I realized quickly that the monster had a relatively fixed patrol route and I immediately shifted into Metal Gear Solid Mode. Here was an obstacle I had faced before. I new how to handle a patrolling enemy, even if I didn't have any means of disposing of it. I scoped out my environment, looking for somewhere I could hide when it went toward the exit, then wait for it to pass behind me on its patrol. A few rooms before the exit, there was a chest-high counter running down the middle of a long room. I waited for the monster to leave out the other side, then ducked behind the wall. I carefully crept along the wall as the monster turned around and returned back the way it had come. When it had left the way I had come, I sprinted past and made my way all the way back to the main lobby of the castle. As I thought about what had just occurred, I realized that I didn't actually see the monster after it had turned the corner and headed for the exit. From the time I crouched behind the wall to sprinting for the exit, I oriented on the monster based solely on sound. I heard its footsteps and the subtle change in music as it got closer, then faded away as it went past me. All I could do was sit there and thing "that was the best stealth I have ever done and I probably will never be that awesome again."