---
title: Database Developers
category: rant
---
Another post of me just writing for the sake of writing. There's nothing really to talk about. I'm just bored waiting for other people again. But one person is out sick, and the other is generally bad at their job.

Oh, there's something I can talk about. My dislike for database people. At my first job (technically, it was a paid internship) there was a particular team of people we called the "Oracle Contractors." I had taken a SQL class in college that taught me more in one semester than 3 years of programming in other languages. That was probably because it was a graduate class designed for people who were already working real jobs. Out of all the classes that weren't just inherent to the CompSci major, the SQL class was the single most useful. But anyway, I worked in the IT help desk at this internship, which understandably had very little coding work. Instead, my days were mostly spent stumbling through Outlook errors and trying to teach people how to format things in Word. Thankfully, we were entirely dedicated to servicing internal people. There was no way I'd survive doing tech support for the general public. So we had this team of Oracles, that I didn't know were database people, who were almost universally hated by my department. I had very little exposure to them, but I got the impression that they were closed-minded and didn't care at all about things outside their little working environment. I didn't like them, but I didn't hate them either.

At my first real job, we didn't have a dedicated...anything. The developers were forced to wear all sorts of hats when it came to maintaining the websites and applications. I did my own code work, my own database work, and my own quality analysis. That last one was a severe blow to the quality of my work, but that's another story. The point is that I was my own database developer. I learned enough, both through the job and from the class I took, to go out and get certified as an Oracle SQL Expert. That basically meant I knew how to write all sorts of queries and the various other SQL statements. It didn't mean that I knew the ins and outs of database optomization or good database design. But I was working with an already existing database, so I only needed to know how to make general updates and run relatively complex queries on it.

My current job is heavily segregated. We have separate teams of developers, quality analysts, and database developers. They all essentially work like mini-constractors. A couple members of each department is assigned to work on a project until it is completed. The product owner has to request a developer resourse, a QA resource, and if necessary, a database resource. Most of the projects I've been working on the past couple years have been really light on the database work (when I haven't been able to do it myself). But without fail, whenever I have to work with a database developer, they create a huge bottleneck. They're concerned with just the data. They don't care about how it's used or ways to arrange it to make the developers' lives any easier. They're just concerned with performance and the database footprint. So, our database developer has a task. It's a simple task. She has to change a 2 to a 3 and fill in some URL data fields. We've been waiting for almost a week for this to get done, and I've had to repeatedly tell our QA testers that the bugs they're finding will be fixed when the database developer gets her shit together. It's so frustrating. I'm beginning to think that database development attracts a specific type of person. One who can narrow their focus and not care about anything bigger than their spreadsheets. I don't feel bad about saying this because I was there before. I know how to design a database. I know what goes through their heads when making changes to the data structure. There is a certain logic you can follow if you know how the data will be used that informs how the storage should be designed. It's only hard when you work without context, which I think most of the database developers here do.