---
title: Good Times 2
category: gaming
---
Shame. I had more that I wanted to say in my previous post. More complaining about habits of old games. Unfortunately, the only games I usually base that on are first-person shooters from the "classic" era of PC gaming: Half-Life, System Shock 2, and Deus Ex. I've tried playing all of them and can't get past the first few areas because they look and feel terrible. There's something "off" with the way guns used to work in those games. Maybe it's the type of reaction you get when shooting something. Like, people don't jerk in reaction to being hit, there's no visible indicator that you hit them, until they keel over and die. Plus, they all have some version of stealth and it's just not intuitive enough. I tried playing with stealth the first time I played Deus Ex, and it just doesn't feel right. I don't know. That's all from an era of gaming that I was too young to appreciate I guess.

Not to say that I don't enjoy some classic games. I think it's just games from an era of new technology that I have issues with. Back then, we were kind of first starting to figure out how to do things in true 3D. Not those weird 2.5D games like Doom, where they used mirrors and clever effects to make it feel 3D. I loved a ton of games from the NES and I do sometimes play the retro games made in that style nowadays.

Anyway, this week has not been good times, contrary to the title of this post. Work has been a huge source of stress this week. I've been promised, time and again, that a new project is coming that I'll be involved in. It'll be interesting, and new, and use some really cool technologies that will make all our sites look better and be easier to manage. But the more I hear from people actually working on the project, the less I'm looking forward to using it. It's a bloated library and the project leadership either don't want to be there or don't know what they're doing. Plus, most of the work is being outsourced to contractors. So here I am, just kind of plugging away at the website, trying to make what little improvements I can by myself. I really don't want to dislike coming to work, but I'm starting to see the same signs I saw at my old job that ended up with me leaving. Looking back, I remember having the best time at this job when I had a teammate with similar levels of experience as me and new features that required us to bounce ideas off of each other for. My current teammate is pretty good, but she's a little behind and the work is very boring.