---
title: Good Times
category: gaming
---
So the DnD campaign is going really well. The DM said that I had the most "complete" backstory of all the players. So far I've actually been doing pretty well. I'm still learning the nuances of 5e and have suffered for forgetting to do certain things. I forgot to add my profeciency bonus to a bunch of stuff during one of our battles and everyone was wondering why I kept missing. One of the other players was complaining that our last fight wasn't balanced correctly for our level, until I started succeeding in my tactical decisions anyway. The two of us were surrounded for a bit until I managed to push one of the enemies closer to our tank so he could smite it, then we were able to break through and regroup. So far it's been pretty fun and I'm getting all the old excitement back. I downloaded a macro-loaded excel document that symplifies character creation by automatically calculating a bunch of stuff for you. I just tried to fill it out, but I'm working from memory for my character. I'll have to take a pic when I get home or something. I'll also have to see if I can find that website that saved character sheets for you. I should still have an account there.

I'm kind of at the end of my rope gaming-wise though. FFXIV doesn't have the appeal that it used to. I'm not in to the crafting scene anymore, not really. The crafted gear hasn't gotten to the point yet where the really cool glamour options come from it. It's really deep right now, but I already have access to just about everything I want to have. Which, now that I think about it, is limited to the glowing primal weapons. I can make a glowing axe of Garuda if I want to, and that's really all I wanted in the beginning. The rest of the stuff is so darned expensive and requires so much from so many different outlets that it's hard to even get in to post-55 crafting. I've been levelling all my crafts solely on GC turn-ins, and I'm pretty close to getting a couple to level cap right now. It's just so much easier to buy the gear off the MB for turn-ins to get exp than it is to find all the mats and craft it myself. The way this is going, the first set of things I'm going to craft will be what I need for collectible turn-in to get the lvl 58 crafting gear. My static had a meeting where we discussed our motivations for playing, with most of us confirming that we only log in for raid nights. I log in a little more, but I don't do very much. Just my roulettes, GC turn-ins, and the occasional beast tribe quest. Also, Void Ark after the weekly reset. I think SE shot themselves in the foot by raising the level cap. They kind of had to, given all the new areas and content that were unlocked. But in doing so, they made nearly everything that was already in the game obsolete. Hardly anyone is running lower level dungeons anymore, or any of the early EX primals. Crystal Tower is completely dead. None of it is worth anything anymore. That might change when they introduce the relic questline. That's been the go-to for re-invigorating old content. They'll do better then.

I'm also on my third play-through of Dark Souls. I'm seeing just how far the Master Key will truly take me. I went straight to New Londo as soon as I could, just to get it out of the way and meet Kaath, the last NPC I hadn't met yet. True to form, he's disappointing. There really isn't much to some of the NPCs once you get to interacting with them. I thought I would join the Darkwraith Covenant, but my limited attempts at PvP so far were slightly less than enjoyable. It's to be expected, since the game is really old. I'm waiting patiently for Dark Souls 3 next year. Maybe I'll become part of that rich community culture then, even if it is a sequel.

I'm sort of playing through Ori and the Blind Forest. It's pretty cool and very pretty, but not very deep. It's like if the artist for Odin Sphere made a MetroidVania game. The ability to latch on to and jump off of projectiles and enemies is an interesting mechanic, but so far it's been underutilized. Although I did just unlock it, and there's a lot of the map still unexplored, so maybe it'll come. The giant scary owl boss is giant and scary too.

I'm also playing The Wolf Among Us. My wife mentioned at some point that she watched some gameplay for Until Dawn and said she would be interested in watching me play that. She usually watches TV or movies while she works at home, so a narrative-heavy game would be a really good way for us to share interests again instead of me going into another room to play. I bought TWAU during a Steam Sale, along with The Walking Dead, and so far it's been pretty enjoyable. We're on the last chapter now, but haven't found the time or interest in finishing it. She's been bit by holiday fever and has just been watching Christmas movies one after another. I'm not feeling it really, probably because it's the middle of December and it hasn't snowed yet. I think I'd be in a much more festive mood if it snowed, even a little.

I wonder if Dark Souls was the last deep game I'm going to get in to. That's probably not going to happen. I still have MGS5, The Witcher III, Fallout 4, and Dark Souls III on my wishlist. It's just that I look through all the games I have that I haven't played and wonder why they're not enough to grab me. It's true that I purchased a lot of them in "complete" or "humble" packs, which means that there are going to be some duds in them, especially among the "classics" that I can't really play because I'm not willing to put up with some older habits of games.