---
title: "Game Experience - Battletoads"
category: game experience
---
I...loved...this...game. This legend. This jewel. This game...was actually really hard. I'm not ashamed to say that I abused the hell out of my Game Genie in order to play this game, and even then I couldn't actually beat it. I haven't tried it since I was a kid, but I'm not sure I could beat it now either. I believe this was the first game my sister and I could actually play together at the same time. Sure, Super Mario had 2 player mode, but you would switch off. You might as well select single player and hand off the controller every time one of you died. Battletoads put both players on the screen at the same time. And of course, we would argue over who would play the green toad and who would play the brown toad. We wasted hours and hours beating up pigs, rats, crows, giant robots, and (best of all) each other. Thanks to the Game Genie, we played at least the first half of every level. We managed to beat precious few of them together and I managed to beat a few more on my own.

Probably the thing that made the game the most fun were the "smash hits." At certain points during fights, maybe your fist would get larger, or your foot would grow huge and turn into a boot, or (my favorite) your head would grow ram horns and your hit would send the enemy flying off-screen. Very few other games felt as "heavy" with their hits as Battletoads. The effort put in to figuring out what tells meant that an enemy was vulnerable to a smash hit made the experience all the sweeter. Plus, the cries of "How did you do that!?" from your friends who hadn't figured them out yet (tee hee).

And, like everyone else, I have horrible memories of this terrible level. The damned speeder section. It wasn't the only one of its kind in the game. There's a later level involving surfboards that's very similar and another one with jet speeders that's even worse. But this was the first. The nearly impossible level culminated in a section you would only find today in endless runners that you're not actually supposed to finish. Walls coming at you with no warning with an easily guessable pattern but ever-increasing speed. Between that, and not knowing where the end was, this level was incredibly hard. The only thing that helped me get through it was the knowledge that the fifth wall had a warp hole in front of it that took you straight to level 6. Yes, I knew about all the warp holes. I owned a copy of "Nintendo Games Secrets: Greatest Tips" which had the location of all the warp holes, as well as the secret Contra-like code that got you 5 lives at the start instead of 3. I could get straight to level 8 without Game Genie codes, even if I still couldn't beat any of them past level 2.

Now, I'm going to wave around my "massive" nerd-cred and forever cement my place as "that guy with that thing." I own a VHS copy of the pilot episode of the Battletoads cartoon series. The pilot was just good enough to warrent a VHS release, but too terrible to give it a full series. It's a good thing that the entire storyline fit into a 20 minute pilot. Nowadays, anyone with an internet connection and passing knowledge of YouTube can watch the episode. But I watched it pre-internet, the way it was meant to be watched. Man, looking back on it now, it really was terrible. Despite being released in the early 90s, this cartoon was full of more 80s-style language than TMNT. I suppose we can blame the era. After the success of TMNT, studios were all set to capitalize on the theory that "kids like anthropomorphic animal superheros." The cable networks were full of things like Street Sharks, Extreme Dinosaurs, and Biker Mice from Mars. And Battletoads was the worst of the lot.

At least the later games did somewhat better, especially when they started teaming up with the Double Dragon team.