---
title: "Game Experience - Pokemon Red"
category: game experience
---
The more I write about these, the more I realize that I grew up in a golden age of gaming. Part of it could be that I notice games appealing to my age group simply because my tastes have been changing, but I can't help but feel like the main target audience of gaming as a whole has been my generation and that the popular gaming companies are growing along with us. Pokemon Red/Blue debuted in USA in 1998. I was in 6th grade and I fit the target audience for this franchise perfectly. Not only that, but I had a sister who was also into gaming. So I got the Red version and she got the Blue version. Nintendo came out with a couple more games that were meant to be played in pairs like that, and we were right there to snatch them up when they came out.

Pokemon is nothing short of a phenomenon. Everyone has heard the word, even if some still don't understand that it's short for "Pocket Monsters." It spawned an amazing video game series, a hit TV show, an expansive line of toys, a relatively short-lived card game, and numerous community-created media. It was the best reason I had to own a Gameboy and one of the first strategy guides I ever owned. I had the complete gameplay guide and a separate Pokedex guide. I watched the show religiously as well as some of the similar shows that were coming out at the time, like DigiMon and Monster Rancher. I liked the DigiMon series a little more than the Pokemon series. Not being tied to a game series about collecting tons and tons of monsters let the writers characterize the DigiMon characters and monsters more. It just had easier access to better writing.

I remember being so proud of my final team of pokemon. This was before any newer types like Dark and Steel were introduced, so I was able to build a team that had a type advantage over any other type in the game without using any of the legendary pokemon. I'm not sure if I can remember all of them though. I had a Beedrill for bug type. There was an Alakazam for psychic type. I either had a Venusaur and a Lapras, or a Wartortle and a Vileplume. I had a Golem for rock and ground. I can't remember what the last one was...maybe an Arcanine? Anyway, whatever it was, I couldn't be beat. At least, not by any of the in-game NPCs. I never got into the multiplayer aspect of Pokemon. I read not too long ago about this thing that professional Pokemon trainers will do where they completely max out the stats on their already-max-level pokemon by having them fight the same enemy over and over for miniscule stat bonuses. The community around Pokemon has definitely gotten older and more mature. They've dissected the system enough to know the most efficient teams and methods of beating other trainers. I stay far away from that crowd.

Of course, there were the highlights. Beating the Elite Four was a big accomplishment for me, even though I essentially cheesed the system with my team. Beating each gym leader was a minor accomplishment too. Catching Mewtwo wasn't that big of a deal since I just saved my Master Ball for him. The most frustrating thing was trying to catch a Snorlax. That darned lazy bastard would just use Rest whenever I got his HP down to capturing range and earn it all back again. I could have killed him with a simple command and yet I could NOT catch him to save my life. I also felt like an idiot later. After I beat the Elite Four, I started on the game's secondary goal: Gotta Catch 'em All! The issue I had was that it took me until all the way through my first playthrough to realize how you're supposed to get all three starter pokemon. I begged and begged, but I ended up resetting my progress in favor of getting the starters from my sister. I didn't mind that much, it was a chance to level up the starters through the game normally. And now I had the added bonus of evolving as I went, rather than keeping my starter and a Beedrill the entire game.

More recently, I was part of the crowd that participated in TwitchPlaysPokemon. All the nostalgia I had about this game came rushing back. But I was much more overwhelmed by the sheer number of other people who were participating, theory-crafting, and creating around it than by my own feelings of nostalgia. I had no idea the Pokemon community was still so big and involved. It because less of a novel way to play Pokemon and more of a Pokemon Fans vs. The Internet. A lot of participants were trolls just looking for a quick laugh, but a surprisingly large majority were die-hard fans who actually wanted to progress and see if they could beat the game as a group. I cheered and threw my own little party when we beat the Elite Four. That was a special time.