---
title: Whee
category: general
---
Hooray, another bored post. We're about to launch a product that's been in the works for over a year. My team was only brought in to help with the integration in the past 3 months or so, but we're nearing the end. Today is the day before, and I have nothing left to do to prepare. That's making for a very boring Monday. So here I am, writing about whatever comes to mind in the hope that I can hold off total boredom for a few hours.

I've been working on another small home-improvement project. I'm installing a long powerstrip in our kitchen. It's going to be replacing a traditional outlet, so I'm working with drywall patches. The real tricky part is going to be sliding everything in to place once the mount is, well, mounted. I have enough trouble getting the piece into the mount when I have full control over it. I usually have to resort to banging it in with a hammer or on the floor. I have no idea how I'm going to get it in when it's on the wall. At least I think I've got the wiring figured out. Hopefully this all works. Right now I'm waiting for the drywall joint compound to dry. Then I'm going to sand it smooth, screw the mount into the wall, and start sliding in the plug piece. When it's almost all the way in and the wires can reach each other, I'll connect them up and test the plugs. Then I'll slide the plug piece the rest of the way in, tucking in the wires as I go, and put the end-caps on. Then the power strip should be all set, and I'll have another notch in my (short) home-improvement belt.

I needed something to do while waiting for DPS queues, so I started watching Amnesia. It's an anime series about a girl with amnesia. The explanation is that this other-world fairy bumped into her soul, and became entangled in it. The space he now occupies is where all her memories used to be. So she can't remember anything before August 1st (three days ago or so). She starts to notice inconsistancies as she goes through her days. Things that she establishes one day, like who her boyfriend is supposed to be and the personality of her manager, will completely switch in subsequent days, usually after she has some sort of accident. After the fairy re-establishes contact with her, we learn that she also has been jumping between parallel worlds. While this partially explains the inconsistancies, she is also seemingly able to remember things that happen in other worlds before they happen. She had a vision of one of her boyfriends confessing that he killed a man, but then the same situation happened a few episodes later and he confessed that it was his father who did the killing. Also, every time she wakes up after what looks like it's going to be an accident, it's August 1st again, but in most cases the accident still happened. I'm keeping the possibility in mind that she's not actually jumping between worlds, but everyone around her is in on a conspiracy to do something else to her mind. I'm trying really hard not to look up anything about the series. It's been a long time since I wasn't spoiled on something. I just hope the wait is worth it.

I haven't made a whole lot of progress on my second Dark Souls playthrough. I've made it through Anor Londo and have to decide where to go next. I tried mixing it up a little and going through the Duke's Archive first, but I think I need a little more experience or something. So I'm going back to Lost Izalith instead. I got the broken pendant that'll get me into the DLC, and I just want to make sure I do that before I go to Darkroot Garden so I can get Sif in the Abyss. That's going to be a cool fight. Once I get through Lost Izalith and save Solaire, I can stop being stingy with my Humanity and walk around as a human more often. I did it a lot in the early game, which gave me more experience in multiplayer. I'm not having any shame in summoning help with bosses, now that I know it helps me just as much as it helps them. I'm really just looking to get through this playthrough quickly so I can get to the DLC and finish up the NPC questlines that I missed the first time around. I think the only ones I missed finishing were Big Hat Logan and Siegmeyer. Oh, and I wanted to go back to Anor Londo and fight Gwyndolin at some point. Not to mention killing off the other NPCs. EVERYONE MUST DIE!!! Ahem...

I haven't done any game dev in a long time. My other blog is sitting unused. I don't really know why. It's probably because FFXIV and Dark Souls are taking up all my spare time at home. I really don't feel like coding at home once I've spent all day at work coding. But then, that's not really what I'm doing either. Otherwise, I wouldn't be writing this. I guess then it's just that I've lost the motivation to build things for myself. I've lost interest after two years of nothing but game dev. I also haven't had a solid idea in a really long time. I wanted to build something after discovering KenL's asset packs, but that never happened. I wanted to work out how the physics behind coinshooting and lurching, but that stalled indefinitely. And that was it. Those were the last two ideas I had. I don't know. Maybe I finally am starting to burn out.

I've been working out more often. It's getting too cold outside to go jogging anymore, and I've reduced my Ingress play, so I have lower motivation to go around hacking portals. I haven't noticed any differences. I still don't think I can do pushups or pullups after my injury earlier in the year. I've stopped going to judo completely. The crowd there just isn't what it used to be. I miss John... I do wish I could find someplace similar up here, but I'm trying really hard not to get involved in anything like that since we're trying to save money. It's hard nowadays. I just took my car in for an oil change, and I'm fully expecting to get a 4-digit bill back from them. Being an adult sucks sometimes.