---
title: Almost Done
category: gaming
---
I had to summon my sun bro, but I took down Farley and Spade and got the Lordvessel. Now I'm on a journey to get the Lord Souls from the last bosses of the game. Since I've been running things more or less in order, this puts me at the halfway point of the game. Of course, since then, I've also taken down Ceaseless Discharge, the Centipede Demon, the Demon Firesage, the Bed of Chaos, Pinwheel, and Gravelord Nito, so I'm probably more like three quarters through the game. All I have left are the Four Kings and Seathe the Scaleless before taking on the final boss of the game. I was kind of disappointed with the Demon Ruins portion of the game. Ceaseless Discharge was a really cool looking boss. The first really big boss I've fought since the Gaping Dragon. But all I did was run back to the fog door and watch him fall into the chasm. The Centipede Demon was also pretty easy once I lured him out of the lava and could get behind him. Going by just number of deaths, the Bed of Chaos was pretty difficult. But that's just because it's all about the bottomless pits it keeps shoving you in to. The Demon Firesage was actually kind of fun. He has an actual variety of attacks that have different dodging strategies. Fighting the Stray Demon first was definitely the right choice. I learned what the explosion patterns can be even though the explosions themselves aren't very prominent.

Pinwheel was too easy, and so was most of the Catacombs and Tomb of the Giants. I get the feeling I was meant to discover that area earlier. I mean, I had already done an item run through the graveyard in the beginning of the game, so I knew how difficult skeletons were supposed to be. But even the giant skeletons weren't that challenging. Nito himself was kind of hard, but a lot of that fight seemed to rely on him having skeleton cronies around to harass you. I looked up that you could permanently kill the smaller ones with a divine weapon and if you fought closer to the starting area, the bigger ones wouldn't pay attention to you. So that was really easy.

I went through the Painted World too and got everything in there. I'm going to have to go back now that I have Chaos Firestorm and see if I can teach that Phalanx a thing or two about messing with me. They gave me so much trouble. Crossbreed Priscilla was another boss I felt kind of bad about killing, but that was definitely a fun fight. The invisibility wasn't as overpowering as I thought it might be considering that her hits have a huge windup and a small hitbox. So it was still pretty easy.

The only other optional boss I know of is Dark Sun Gwyndolin, and I'm really not in the mood to kill Gwenevyre. I don't think there's anything else. Let me check the wiki real quick...

Yep, the only other bosses are in the DLC, which I'll probably go through on my next playthrough. I'm really curious to see how the game feels when you've been through it once already. I'll probably start a completely new game rather than go for NG+. I'm not at all happy with my character build. Too much Str when I always seem to be using Dex based weapons. I just don't seem to be getting strong Str based weapons. Or rather, they hit just as hard as my faster weapons. I'm really attached to my Black Knight Shield and Quelagg's Furysword. I made the Dragonslayer Spear too to use for the battle with Seath. But like I said, those are both Dex weapons. I'm using the Cursed Artorias Greatsword to get through New Londo (hate that place), but that scales evenly with all stats.

I watched a few videos of players fighting Gwyn. The fact that you can parry-ripost probably means that I'm going to find the fight incredibly easy. I got really good at parry pretty early in the game when I took on my first Black Knight. It's just that so few enemies are parry-able that I haven't been able to practice. Supposedly, the path to Kiln of the First Flame is full of Knights, so I'm going to get plenty of practice in.

Now I just have to make it through New Londo...