---
title: "Game Experience - Shadow of the Colossus"
category: game experience
---
Now this was a game that tried something different. Debuting in October of 2005, this was the start of my foray into the more artistic side of games. I had just graduated high school and was ready to break away from some of the more mainstream titles. One of the demo discs I had gotten from Playstation Magazine had supposedly included a playable demo of ICO, but the one on my disc caused my Playstation 2 to crash, so I never got to play this game's precursor. Of course, I have since played and beaten everyone's favorite atmospheric escort quest, and I can definitely see Team ICO's evolution between that game and this one.

The story and gameplay of Shadow of the Colossus can be summed up fairly easily. Kill 16 giant monsters as part of a deal with a dark god to revive your dead girlfriend. That's all there is to it. What really sells the game is the environment, the atmosphere, and the design of the collosi themselves. I think the game has a very niche audience. Great portions of gameplay are taken up with just riding around on your horse trying to find the next colossus. It can be incredibly boring if you go into it with the wrong mindset. With the right expectations, however, it can be incredibly beautiful and meditative. Frankly, I think it's a perfect way to offset the intensity of the colossus battles themselves.

I've played a few other games where some of the enemies are meant to be really big. The image to the left is to-scale. You can see the player character all the way in the lower left corner. Few other games have managed to pull off giant enemies. The original Half-Life did it with the giant tentacle monster in the rocket silo, but you only saw a small portion of it and stopping to look would get you killed really quickly. Resistance 2 did it with the Leviathan Chimera, but most of the combat there was within cutscenes or far away. God of War did it fairly well, but again, most of the combat there was in cutscenes. Bayonetta did it fairly well too, but the sheer power of the main character meant the bigger enemies didn't feel as threatening. Shadow of the Colossus is still the only game I've played where the giant enemies feel giant and act giant. Where even their average step is enough to cause a small shockwave and send the player tumbling.

Actually fighting the colossus is more like a platform-puzzler than an action sequence. Each colossus has a unique series of tasks you have to accomplish in order to access its weak point so you can stab it with your enchanted sword. The second colossus requires that you trick it into using its club-arm to hit a metal plate, which will shatter the guard around its wrist and allow you to scale up its club and make it up its shoulder and onto its head. Another one resembling a turtle requires that you lead it over the geysers in the area so that it's pushed onto its back and you can reach the weak point on its belly. Still another one requires that you lead it on a chase, then shoot at its eyes so it crashes into the wall and you can hit it while it's not digging through the sand. Some of the smaller colossus are a little half-hearted, and there are some that require incredibly specific uses of the environment. But each one is interesting and incredibly fun to fight.

Everyone's favorite, mine included, is the giant flying desert worm. In the to-scale picture above, it's the one that stretches all the way across the top of the picture. In order to bring it down, you have to ride your horse underneath it and hit a few gas-filled sacs on its underside so that it can't stay afloat and comes to glide along the ground. Then you have to ride your horse on an intercept course, leap off, and grab on to one of its wings. Then it will take off again, and you can make your way around its back, stabbing its weak points until it dives underground to throw you off. It's one of the later colossi that you fight, so you've had ample time to run around the environment and see how big it is. Now you're riding this massive colossus that's flying as high as a jet airliner. You can see the entire landscape stretching out around you, and remember the unique places you've already been. I could point out the desert with the geysers where I fought the turtle colossus, I could see the lake temple where I fought the bird colossus, and I could see a great cloud of darkness where the last colossus waited for me. It was one of the most awe-inspiring moments in my gaming career.

SPOILER WARNING

I had another moment while playing this game where I nearly shut the game off and refused to play it again. On your way to fight the final colossus, your horse, Argo, throws you off his back to save you from a falling bridge. The horse has been your constant companion and has been essential in some of your battles. And now he's gone. I cried like a little baby.

The final twist at the end was so of the most brilliant merging of story and gameplay that I have ever seen. Every time you destroy a colossus, a dark energy flows in to you, gradually corrupting your appearance. Upon defeating the last one, your character finally loses himself and is taken over by the dark god. You are turned INTO one of the colossus you've been fighting just as the human squadron that's been chasing you catches up with you. So now you get to see the game from the other side, as a colossus slowing pawing at the noisy humans trying to bring you down. If the music and atmosphere around a colossus corpse wasn't enough to make you feel sorry for killing these beasts that just wanted to be left alone, actually being killed as one will be.

Shadow of the Colossus is a brilliant merging of mood music, environment, and gameplay to create a good ebb and flow of tension and excitement and an all-around meditative experience. Controlling the main character can get a little wonky at times, and the horse can be picky, but I think that just makes the game more believable.