---
title: Hello World!
category: general
---
I'm trying out this new blogging software, seeing if I can make use of something without a purpose other than my own musings. I'm always finding myself writing things down in chatroom inputs and forum posts, and then going back and deleting them because I think they're dumb or not worth the text used to write them. So, I'm going to use this to record some of the random thoughts I have when I'm bored. I think most of the content here will be stream-of-consciousness. I'm not a very good writer and I'm on the lazy side, so there won't be much editting. I'm just going to write whatever I feel like. Sort of like a journal, but recorded somewhere I can always get to it.

The other purpose if this site will be for me to experiment with Jekyll, Bootstrap, and jQuery. See just how far I can take a website that's almost entirely static content. The nice thing about Jekyll is that there's no restrictions on it. It's a little inconvenient to use since it doesn't have any WYSIWYG editors, but that also means I have complete control over what appears here. I can do all sorts of crazy experimenting with front-end styling and scripting. I had tried doing a test with animation before this, moving a ball from one element to another. The problem was that the destination element got fixed to the top of the page on scroll, so I had to detect when the scroll was past a certain point and alter the position formula. I'll have to see what the easiest way is to put something like that on here. My own little website sandbox.

I've been watching Markiplier's palythrough of Five Nights at Freddy's 4. I don't like horror games, and this series is specifically designed to give players heart attacks. I left for work this morning at 4:30am, when the sun hadn't come up yet. And I actually had a hard time navigating around my house because I kept feeling like one of the animatronics was going to pop out at me. On the other hand, I absolutely love the story and world of FNaF and I have always loved watching play-throughs of video games. I didn't have a whole lot of money to spend on my own when I was a kid. We weren't poor, my parents just never gave me all that much money. I would still like to go to arcades, and I learned to love the "attraction" mode that games are in when no one is playing them. They'll loop between the title screen, some intro cinematic, and actual gameplay. I *loved* watching those gameplay loops, even when they started to repeat themselves. Today, that means I love watching "Let's Play"s, especially if I know I'm probably never going to play the game myself, which is the case with the FNaF series. Plus, Markiplier is hilarious. I love figuring out the mysteries and mechanics of the games with him. FNaF is definitely about figuring out the behavior of the animatronics based on very little evidence given to you when you're terrified. And the first 3 games were so minimalistic too. They were just a bunch of still images with the occasional animated attack, which was also very short and usually nothing more complicated than a large .GIF animation. FNaF 4, on the other hand, introduces a character that runs around his little enclosure, so the whole room and the animatronics have to be fully 3D rendered. It makes the graphics look a little cheaper (the artist's talent is clearly in detailed 2D pictures), but ten times more terrifying.