---
title: "Game Experience - Baseball Simulator 1.000"
category: game experience
---
And now we're heading into the distant past. Back to a day when men were men and baseball was played on virtual consoles instead of with actual bats and balls. Baseball Simulator 1.000 was released for the NES in North America in March of 1990. Nintendo was on a hot streak that year. Final Fantasy I and Super Mario Bros 3 had just come out earlier in that same year. Everyone and their brother owned a Nintendo Entertainment System. It was the age before the internet, when Blockbuster was the go-to place for home movie rental and game guides were purchased in paperback from Funcoland or your local bookstore (if you were lucky). I owned a few of those, and I've already mentioned that I read game instruction manuals like normal people read books. Unfortunately, I picked up this game during a Blockbuster branch-closing event when they were selling all their NES games for $2.00 a pop. It's no wonder I ended that year with more than 40 NES games in my closet, most of which didn't have those instruction manuals I loved so much.

Most of my friends at the time who owned an NES and played sports games went with another franchise to get their fix: Bases Loaded. I owned a copy of Bases Loaded 2, but I really hated it. The controls for the outfielders were not nearly as responsive as those in Baseball Simulator. Technically, they were the same. Press right, up, left, or down to target first, second, third, or home base respectively. Then press A to throw the ball to that player, or press B to run there yourself. Of course, it made for some rather funny moments if your first baseman caught a fly ball and then you tried to throw the ball to first base. Your character would happily throw the ball at empty air and your catcher would have to pick up the slack. Another thing that made me frustrated about Bases Loaded was the mismatch between pitching and hitting. The batter could swing at three levels: high, mid, and low. The pitcher, at first glance, could only do the same. But I discovered that I could just tap the direction I wanted the pitch to go and it would only go halfway. It would go between the batter's high and mid position, for example. I could never master it, but of course the AI had no trouble. I despised the game for that.

I've avoided the real reason for long enough. The real reason Baseball Simulator 1.000 was better was because the players had superpowers! A third of the pickable teams were part of an Ultra League. They were what you'd expect from a Mario Baseball game. My personal favorite was the one on the far right with the smiling baseball. That was because the fourth batter could run about 3x faster than any other player and because the third pitcher threw sidearm, which everyone had trouble hitting. But everyone in that league could throw Fireballs, Stop Balls, or Swirl Balls. Or they could hit Crater Hits, Super Linedrives, or Earthquake Balls. I had to come up with my own names for them since all the game gave you was a little icon. But almost any time you were up at bat or up to pitch, you could press B or press up twice to activate your special power. Then all bets were off. Almost none of the special pitches were hittable unless you had also activated your special hit, and almost none of the special hits were catchable unless you let them run their course and picked them up afterward. They were amazing! Superheros playing baseball with other superheros.

My fondest memory of playing this game was when I got a little older and the NES got relegated to the entertainment system at our summer home after we got a Playstation. I would play Baseball Simulator for hours while the rest of my family was out sunbathing or fishing. It had a "season" game mode where you could play a series of games just like a real baseball season. I remember one of the modes included 365 games, just in case you wanted to play one every day for a year. I was already trouncing other teams in exhibition matches all the time, so I never made it very far through an actual season. I could be remembering this next bit wrong, but I believe that, when you set up a season, you were forced to watch the games you weren't playing in. Of course, that's atrocious game design. Why would you fire up a game, then sit back to watch while it played itself over and over again? I could see that being amusing for a little while, but after a little of that, you might as well just go back to watching regular baseball.