---
title: "Game Experience - Secret Quest"
category: game experience
---
There's something empowering about being able to say that you've experiences some really old and classic entertainment content. My first actual game system was an Atari 7800 that my father owned. The darned thing still works, actually. The Atari gamesystem had three incarnations: the 2600, the 5200, and the 7800. The 7800 was unique because it was semi-backwards-compatible. It couldn't play games for the 5200 because the cartridges were different sizes, but it had the same size cartridges as the 2600, so it could play those games. I have many fond memories and a lot of favorite games from that era. I have never played the infamous E.T., so my memories have almost no tarnish from the great video game crash of 1983. One of my favorites from that time in my life was Secret Quest for the Atari 2600. Not to be confused with Space Quest despite the similar name and Secret Quest taking place in space.

Secret Quest was a top-down 2D adventure game set in a series of abandoned space stations that had been infested with hostile creatures. The objective was to navigate the station, find the self-destruct switch, start the self-destruct, then reach the teleporter exit before the station exploded. The player had an Energy bar that functioned like "Life" or "HP" in that it would drain when you were attacked and could be replenished by picking up energy canisters. The player also had an Oxygen bar that would deplete over time and could be refilled by picking up oxygen tanks. The player could also pick up more and more powerful weapons in each of the stations that would consume more and more of your Energy bar with each use. The game was fairly complex for the time period. Each level had a unique layout made up of square rooms. Each subsequent level had a new unique enemy type and a new weapon for the player to pick up. The details of the levels didn't change at all between levels except for the wall color. But, back then, that was enough to make the world feel a lot bigger than it actually was.

My fondest memory of this game was when my father dug out all his old notes that he made while playing it. This was the era before GameFAQs and before save files. Your progress in Secret Quest was saved as a unique password that you had to remember or write down and input on your next playthrough in order to resume your progress. Secret Quest was one of the first games to do this. My father, having beaten the game long before I started playing it, had all the passwords recorded in old notebooks alongside the expansive maps of each level. Between the Oxygen bar and the self-destruct timer, there was a huge incentive for the player to complete the level as fast as possible. So, my father created exhaustive maps of every level, where all the items were, where the self-destruct switch was, and where the teleporter exit was. I never had the patience to sit down and beat every level. There were too many other games to play. This was just the first time I had encountered notes that had been made outside the game itself. I adopted that habit for myself for a long time. At least, until games got complex enough that strategy guides started being published.