---
title: Linked the Fire
category: gaming
---
I did it! I beat Dark Souls. It was quite the journey. Ultimately, the ending was a disappointment. But it got better and more appropriate the more I thought about it.

All throughout the game, you are wandering around, encountering people and things that are at the end of their rope. Some of them are beastes that are following their "natural" urges like the Gaping Dragon or the Hydra. Some of them are completely insane and don't know any better, like Seath or the Four Kings. Some don't want to fight you, but have to for their own reasons, like Quelaag, Sif, O&S, and Priscilla. Usually, beings in this last category fight to preserve something that's on it's last legs anyway, and defeating them is incredibly sad. That's actually the whole reason I became a Chaos Servant. I felt so bad about killing Quelaag that I felt obligated to take up her purpose and support her sister. I only found out later that becoming a Chaos Servant was (mostly) necessary to save the one beacon of hope in this cruel world.

And then there's Gwyn, who falls into a category shared with the Crestfallen Warrior...and not much else. They've been used up by the world. The Crestfallen Warrior has been helping "chosen" undead get their bearings for longer than we could possibly know, and he's sick of it. Gwyn has been giving everything he has to keep the fire of the world burning. Neither of them have anything left and they live tortured existances as hollows in the end. Putting them down is a sad mercy. So I felt better not getting the big epic duel with the great god of the age when I thought about what was left of him when he met me. Someone on Reddit put it nicely, "You're not usurping some almighty god-king, you're putting down an old sick dog who's tired of supporting the world."

Which brings me to my one gripe about the lore and the story. What is the deal with the Primordial Serpents? I never met Kaathe during my playthrough, but Frampt literally comes out of nowhere. They're not mentioned in the opening at all, and the only real role they seem to play before the game starts is the corruption of the Four Kings. And yet here one is, with knowledge of the Lordvessel, how to open the Kilm, and charging me with succeeding Gwyn. Where did all this information come from? The Primordial Serpants also seem to be the only sentient beings not affected by the decay of the world. They're alive, sane, and motivated to do things. What they want to do is not moral, but at least they want to do something of value. Everyone else you run in to is either content with their own selfish motivations, or is just waiting to go hollow.

I did really like how the Kilm was designed. It's set up so beautifully, with the wandering ghosts of the Silver Knights. Then you go through the portal and it's just ash and ruin everywhere. It really looks like there should have been a huge fire burning in the middle, but there's just about nothing left of that splendor. There's just ash all over the place, and a few remaining Black Knights guarding the way. It's very depressing and chilling. It's the first place that has so much death, and yet no corpses. I mean, the Tomb of the Giants and the basic of New Londo gave the same vibe of the remains of a once great place, but they both just had so many corpses. The lack of bodies made the Kilm feel...holier, I think. I think I was holding my breath as I walked through it, because I was afraid of disturbing anything even though I had come to kill the being keeping it from falling completely apart.

I've read a lot of people's opinions on their least favorite areas. I've heard that the Duke's Archives and Lost Izalith had a ton cut from their original design, which is disappointing. Blighttown lives forever as a hated area. I didn't mind it that much once I figured out that ladders that take you progressivly further in the area tend to have torches on them. The Depths was pretty bad for me because I kept getting lost in the sewers with the Basilisks. Lost Izalith frustrates people because the only obvious bonfire is so far from the Bed of Chaos and the bed specializes in one-hit kills in the form of bottomless pits. I died a lot there too, but I discovered the hidden bonfire, so I didn't have that much of an issue with it. My most hated area was New Londo Ruins. Those damned ghosts with their ability to stun-lock you through walls. I spent a lot of time farming souls to get the Cursed Greatsword of Artorias because I ran out of Transient Curses before I made it through the first few areas. Once I drained the basin, I was so happy that I could just drop down and avoid just about all the ghosts on the way to the Four Kings.

I've started a completely new playthrough. I'm avoiding NG+ for this one because I hate how my character turned out. Prior knowledge is a huge advantage here. I made it all the way to Sen's Fortress in about a quarter of the time. I'm a lot more powerful than I was before at this stage. I'm also dabbling in the multiplayer aspects. Spending a lot more time as a human. I've even been summoned to help with the Bell Gargoyles and the Capra Demon a few times. I got invaded once. Now that I've opened up the Sen's Fortress shortcuts, I plan on getting Quelaag's Furysword, heading back to Darkroot Garden, and joining the Forest Hunter covenant. I'm also debating staying in the Warrior of Sunlight covenant and helping a few people get past Quelaag, or the Iron Golem, or even O&S. I want to try out that Lightning Spear miracle. Finally, I'm debating whether I want to kill Solaire or not. He made Gwyn a lot easier and I liked fighting with my sunbro one last time, but I feel like the experience would be more complete if I saw him fall too. I missed the end of Seigmeyer and Logan's quests too.

I did try out a quick sorcery build before going back to sword & board. I didn't like the lack of staggering power and the limited utility I had in the early game. I imagine once I got enough souls to get the more advanced sorceries, it might have been enjoyable, but I could just as easily get those in late game on my current character. Jump in right when sorcery is supposed to get fun and all that.