---
title: "Game Experience - Wipeout HD Fury"
category: game experience
---
Wipeout, one of the most under-appreciated racing game series I've ever encountered. I've seriously seen almost no press or advertising for this series. And yet there are...9 games in the series (not including DLC). I discovered the Wipeout series when Blockbuster and video game rentals were still a thing you went to physical stores for. I rented Wipeout 2097 for the Playstation. It felt like Tron Racing. All wireframes, electrobolts, and shields. The weapons were just points of light with rotating lens-flares around them. Very low-tech as far as realism goes, but this is an anti-gravity racer. I'm sure realism is the furthest thing from the developers' minds. Wipeout HD is currently the newest Wipeout game for a home console. Wipeout 2048 came out a few years ago for the Playstation Vita. Fury is a rather large DLC pack for Wipeout HD that doubles the number of crafts and tracks, and introduces a few new game modes. I bought HD and Fury together, so I'm not exactly sure where one ends and the other begins, but they make an awesome complete package.

I think of Wipeout as the big boys' version of Mario Kart, or F-Zero for Sony fanboys. All the same racing and gunning but without the cartoon characters and quirky sound effects. Red Shells are Missles, Green Shells are Rockets, Mushrooms are Speed Boosts, and you race around futuristic cityscapes instead of the Mushroom Kingdom or Bowser's Castle. I love both series, but for different reasons. More of my friends are willing to play a quick pickup game of Mario Kart, but I'll play Wipeout whenever I have a craving for solo racing, or when I want to show off what my new widescreen HD television is capable of.

I suppose that's the thing about Wipeout HD. The series looks incredible. One of its biggest selling points is rendering at full 1080p and 60FPS. That seems like standard practice now (sort of), but it really shows during gameplay and was incredible when the game came out back in 2008. I suppose its other big selling point is its connection with electronic dance music. The developers repeatedly collaborate with artists such as Orbital, The Chemical Brothers, and Kraftwerk. I had only heard of these artists because I had played Frequency to death, but apparently they're really big in Europe where the underground electronic dance music scene is more popular.

But let's talk about the gameplay. The Wipeout series appeals to racers more on the hardcore side of racing games. The physics of anti-gravity racing encourage finding a good racing line during gameplay rather than just shooting your friends when you happen to pick up the Plasma weapon. I spent quite some time learning the structure of the tracks so I could prepare my line 2 or 3 turns in advance. I never went online to play, so I'm not sure how I measure up, but I got all golds in campaign mode, so that's saying something. This design also means that no ship really has an advantage over another. Like most racing games, each ship has different stats for handling, top speed, and acceleration. That just means their racing lines are different. Lower handling can be really good if you're very precise with your racing lines and can use the hard turns effectively. All the new crafts introduced in Wipeout HD Fury have boosted stats, but that only means their racing style is different, not that they're any better.

I didn't fall in love with the Zone gameplay mode like most other people did. The Zone mode is a unique racing mode where there are no other racers. Your only goal is to survive until you get the high score. Your craft is on a fixed accelerator that constantly boosts your speed higher and higher the longer you survive. Every time you crash into a wall, you lose shield and your race ends when your shield runs out. The mode also borrows from Audio Surf in that the track pulses with the music. My personal favorite was Detonator mode. It's a little like Zone in that you're constantly accelerating, but you have to shoot mines in order to get points instead of just surviving. It starts off slow, but can get really hectic and fun the longer you survive.

Man...now I want to play Wipeout again. It's been a while.