---
title: Energy without Motivation
category: general
---
It's been one of those days that I keep having. A day where I feel like I have enough energy to do everything, but no motivation to do anything. I had a brief idea that I'd spend this energy building a presentation out of a game guide I had written a long time ago. Then I started hunting around and found a number of guides saying pretty much exactly what I'd be saying in mine.

Usually, when this happens, I wish that I had something to just tinker with. Something that I could work on bit by bit. I've even built a few things like that. But they always fall by the wayside as I lose interest. It's hard to just tinker with something when you go for so long without working on it. I'll start building a game, then I'll run out of things to add, or the next thing I'll want to add is too big for just "tinkering". I suppose that makes blogging a good fit. I don't actually have to know what I want to do with it when I can just write a new post full of random ramblings. I don't even need for it to be productive tinkering with a journal/blog. I just write.

Maybe this still isn't a bad thing. Starting on projects only to abandon them at some point. From what I've read, nearly every developer does this. While seeing a project through to completion is a good thing, you learn just about everything you need to know by finishing a few projects and being exposed to the tools on countless others. If you learn 90% of what you'll end up learning in the first 40% of the project, and the only reason you were doing the project in the first place was to learn something, isn't that good enough? I suppose the gaping hole in that argument is that the last few projects I've worked on haven't actually taught me anything. I almost have to start from scratch every time despite using the same tools.

I suppose it doesn't help that my right hand is still hurting. I can only type for a half hour at a time before my forearm starts hurting. It also doesn't help that I have almost nothing to do at work either. Maybe I'll go ahead and write that guide anyway. I'm bored enough that it might be kind of fulfilling to get my thoughts down. Then again, I already got my thoughts down before. Even though that was lost, the fact that I did it once already kind of takes away from the experience.

I think I figured it out. The reason I've been feeling so antsy and grumpy the past few days is that it's been almost three weeks since I got a full night's sleep. I've been waking up between 2 and 4 every morning since the beginning of the month. I've gotten pretty good at managing it. I'll take a hot shower and some more painkillers and go right back to bed, but it adds up. I've probably lost about 3 whole days of sleep, all totalled up. I should be feeling the affects now. Slower decision-making, irritability, apathy, grumpiness. This better improve soon. I can't wait to get to 100% again and start working out and sleeping better.