---
title: "Game Experience - Star Tropics"
category: game experience
---
Ah, Star Tropics. This was another NES game that I poured hours of my life in to. I can't actually remember if I managed to beat it without the help of the Game Genie. I'm pretty sure the answer is no, but that didn't make solving the puzzles any easier. This game had some truly convoluted dungeon layout puzzles. But it had some of the best music if any game I played in the early 90s.

Star Tropics was a top-down exploration adventure game with fairly clunky combat, an expansive story, and a really cool setting. You are Mike, typical teenager. You go to visit your uncle, an island archaeologist, who has gone missing. You embark on an odyssey around the islands in the South Sea in order to find him. You are armed (at first) with only a yo-yo and your "formidable" baseball skills. Along the way, you'll battle a giant octopus, fire demons, ghosts, aliens, and MANY slugs.

The first thing I want to talk about is the ancient anti-piracy feature that came with this game originally. The instruction manual came with a letter from your in-game uncle. It was fairly standard family stuff upon first glance, but it came into play late in the game. You unlock new features of your submarine through 4-digit codes. Most of them are told to you in-game. But one essential code requires you to "dip the letter in water." This meant that you had to dip the actual physical letter that came with the instruction manual in water, revealing the hidden code needed to proceed. The magazine Nintendo Power was asked about the code so often that they ended up just publishing the code soon after the game was released. I'm proud to say that we figured out what it meant fairly quickly and without needing to consult any guides. I think I still have that letter. The code might be permanently revealed though. Those things don't tend to hold their effect for very long. This was the first game I had beaten that employed a feature like this, although it wasn't the first I had encountered like this. Sword Quest for the Atari 2600 holds that spot for me. But I credit this game with giving me the tools I would need to eventually beat Metal Gear Solid during the infamous "her frequency should be on the back of the CD case" portion. Thanks, Star Tropics.

Another portion of the game I remember was the graveyard dungeon. This was one of those where all the rooms looked the same and you had to traverse them in a specific order to proceed. It was really bad because it was full of false exits that would just put you back in the overworld. The entrance was a grave stone that was slightly off-color from the others. It didn't look like a dungeon entrance at all. You just walked over the grave stone and you were in. We spent hours trying to navigate through that place. To the point of putting the game down and not coming back to it for a few weeks. That was the most frustrating part for me. Not to mention that ghost was pretty annoying to beat.

Before finally beating it, I had many false starts playing this game. To the point that I had the first few dungeons memorized and had fought this darned octopus way too many times. But even after all that time, I still died at least once to the false room with the giant pool. You'd think that a teenager running around island dungeons would know how to swim, right? Of course not. Like the older Zelda games, the dungeons in this game were broken up by screen. Moving from one screen to another was an entire transition that couldn't be stopped once started. Star Tropics made use of that unstoppable quality by laying out rooms that were just lava or were just deep water. Entering the room meant certain death and you only had the time it took the room transition to finish to realize your mistake. This made playing the game pretty frustrating, but watching someone else play it incredibly entertaining.

My memory of the final stretch of the game is pretty fuzzy. I only actually beat the game once, despite starting it and getting respectably far a half dozen times. I remember something about aliens and the survival of a race discovered by Mike's uncle. I don't even really remember what the final boss looked like. I sort of remember a silly picture of Mike jamming bananas in his ears. What I remember most about the final dungeon is the music. This was another of those games like Final Fantasy VII where I'd set it up, get myself to a safe place, and leave the music on in the background while I did my homework. I do remember the satisfaction I felt when I finally beat the game. Despite my use of the Game Genie, this was a long and difficult game to beat when I was a kid.