---
title: Endings
category: general
---
I finished up that Amnesia anime series I mentioned a while ago. The ending was a real letdown, although I'm not entirely sure what I expected. The series didn't really have a good grounding to begin with, and the ending felt kind of whispy and unfinished. The last few episodes introduced a character we had only seen in passing and tried to establish him as the reason the series premise existed. All the relationships with the other characters were thrown out the window. The entire series makes a huge deal out of the main heroine's relationships with the four pretty-boys from the intro, only to have them not matter at all in the series conclusion. In the end, the heroine is left lost and alone against the evil alternate personality of her "original" boyfriend. She is saved through no action of her own, but through the good personality of her boyfriend forcing himself to commit suicide. I'll buy the whole "you were fated to die back then, so now the world is trying to kill you" concept. I actually really like it and enjoy stories with this concept. The problem with this story is the completely flat main character. I don't think she actually says more than five words at a time. Everyone around her is just expressing their feelings and imposing their desires on her. I can give that a kind of pass because she has amnesia, which provides an in-story explanation for her lack of personality and timid-ness. But that means that the interesting parts of the story are the people around her. The four boyfriends featured in the intro, her manager, her friends, that stupid fan club that harasses her, and her fairy companion. That's fine and might make for an interesting story. But the only one of those characters to even make an appearance in the last four episodes of the series is the fairy, who has been established as not being able to affect the world or influence events. I can think of a handful of more interesting endings to this story. She could world-hop back to previous worlds and enlist the help of her other boyfriends to fend off the new, crazy one. Her fairy companion could have played a bigger role, maybe revealed some cool new power that could more directly help the heroine. The ending I was expecting was for her to regain her memories and learn that there was no world-hopping at all, and that her friends were all in on a conspiracy to prevent her from remembering some awful truth about something. It wouldn't have to be nefarious either. Maybe she has brain cancer and they think it's constantly resetting her memory, so they take turns being her boyfriend and the fairy is all in her head.

Whatever. I'm keeping the opening theme on my playlist and filing this series under "Would not recommend."

I've started watching Paranoia Agent. I was surfing around YouTube and found a video examining the editing techniques of Satoshi Kon. The only thing he's made that I've watched is Paprika, but I would recognize his style anywhere. Then I remembered that I had watched bits and pieces of Paranoia Agent when it was part of the midnight run on Toonami. I was too young to appreciate and understand it when it aired then, so I'm picking it up now. It turns out that I actually watched it fairly religiously before deciding it wasn't for me. I had seen at least the first 5 episodes already. So far, it's much better. Every episode so far tells the story of one or more of Little Slugger's victims. They're given concrete personalities with understandable origins and are relatable while not being boring. The mystery of Little Slugger has apparently been solved by the end of episode 5, and I have no memory of how it gets resurrected for the last 7 episodes of the series, so this is going to be pretty exciting.

Now I'm just killing time again. I have nothing really to do until my next meeting in 2 hours, then it's another 2 hours and I get to go home for the weekend.