---
title: Dark Souls Progress
category: gaming
---
So with FFXIV well into the pre-patch blues period of its content cycle, I've reduced my playtime and had a lot more time to devote to Dark Souls. I'm running in to an old roadblock with these sorts of games where I absolutely *can't* miss anything. It's what ultimately stopped me from finishing FFVI. I learned that, due to me not exploring enough, I had lost the character Shadow permanently. I faced the choice on whether to continue the game, quit, or start over to try and keep him. I just couldn't keep going. I just rang the second Bell of Awakening in Dark Souls, and learned that I killed the fire keeper of Firelink Shrine by doing that and freeing an NPC prisoner earlier in the game. There's a way to bring her back to life, and the murder is supposed to happen, but I was so flabbergasted when I learned that I couldn't rest at the bonfire anymore that I almost quit on the spot. I had been cautious about my choices so far, since they all have a sense of permanence to them. The only things I had missed were some invasions that happen if you wander around an area as a human before killing the area boss.

Other than that minor scare, I've been having a hell of a time playing Dark Souls. I've beaten the Bell Gargoyles, the Gaping Dragon, and Chaos Witch Quelagg. The Gaping Dragon was kind of on the easy side and I beat it first try, but that's because I looked up a guide and learned about the insane amount of time it gives you after charging to do damage. From that and a video I watched of the Hydra fight, I learned how the boss AI works in Dark Souls. The bosses mostly do not use scripted attacks, like FFXIV bosses are so known for. Instead, Dark Souls bosses are conditional, usually analyzing how far away the player is and how far behind the boss the player is. Those two, plus a couple of random choices, dictate what the boss's next attack will be. This knowledge let me defeat Quelagg with little trouble too. I count it impressive that Quelagg never defeated me with the same move twice. She defeated me once with her sword stab because I underestimated its length. She defeated me a couple times because I thought there was enough space between two lava blobs for me to roll through. She defeated me once with her little explosion move. I had some trouble after the first few attempts because my Drake Sword started breaking, so I switched to my Longsword +2 for the trash leading up to her, and my Greatsword +2 for the actual fight. I got really upset when my Drake Sword started complaining because I hadn't found the bonfire in the swamp, hadn't found the elevator back up to Firelink Shrine, and didn't know there was a blacksmith in the entrance to the New Londo Ruins. I was *not* looking forward to going all the way back to Andre and then *all* the way back through the Depths and Blighttown to get to the swamp again.

Man, I died a ton in the Depths. It was also the first time I had to look up an area map. Those damned Basilisks surprised the hell out of me the first time I fell through a sewer grate, but they only ever managed to curse me once. After that, I was on high alert whenever I knew they were around. It was only after I defeated Quelagg that my focus let up. I got that relieved feeling you get when your brain has been working overtime and you finally get to relax. I had lost track of time and just about everything else. The last time I felt like that and didn't notice until it was over was probably...the final fight of MGSIV. It was a while ago and I'm glad that I found a game that has brought out that feeling in me again.

I'm mostly just happy that I never have to go through Blighttown again unless I want in on the Chaos Covenant or take on the Great Hollow or Demon Ruins. But even then, it's just a short elevator ride and a trek through the swamp. I don't have to navigate those damned scaffolds anymore. Right now, I have a bunch of choices for areas to try next. I can try the Catacombs, but I'll wait until I find a light source for that. I can go through the Demon Ruins, but I want the lava-resistant ring before that. I can go through Darkroot Garden (or Basin?) and take on the Hydra and the Moonlight Butterfly. I can attempt to take on Sen's Fortress. I can go back down to the swamp under Blighttown and take on The Great Hollow. I can load up on temporary curse items and attempt the New Londo Ruins. Choices, choices, choices!! I think I'm going to take on the Hydra. I got an item that unlocks the glowing door in Darkroot Garden, so I think that's worth exploring at this point.