---
title: Feeds and Stuff
category: web development
---
I successfully added an RSS feed to this blog. Now just about all your average feed readers will recognize this site and pull the feed with my posts in it.

I've always been a big fan of RSS feeds. They're one of the coolest web concepts I've ever learned about. I used to use Google Reader exclusively before Google in their *infinite* wisdom decided to shut it down. I'm not bitter, I swear. I'm also not bitter that they shut down Google Code... Anyway, I switched to Feedly instead because I really liked their mobile interface. Now I have a small collection of web dev and video game related news sites and blogs that I keep up with through my feeds. It's like your own private newspaper collection.

I was also pretty surprised the first time I went to build a podcast feed for iTunes. It uses the same RSS technology to generate podcast feeds for users. It was an obvious connection after I thought about it, but at the time, I thought it was really exciting.

I'm still in pain from last week. I've been working from home all week, taking frequent breaks to lie down on the floor or in my comfy chair, taking frequent showers, and keeping dosed up on pain meds. I've read horror stories about people in this kind of pain having to live with it their whole lives. While I certainly wouldn't like that, I'm more afraid of becoming one of those people who constantly complains about it. You know those kind of people. People who have some minor affliction that they label as chronic pain, OCD, or autism. They advertise it like it's the only thing that defines them. I'm not trying to downplay people who actually have severe cases of these things. I've seen how it can affect someone's life. But the best people can rise above it and learn to deal with it. They have whatever is wrong with them managed to the point where only minor outbreaks occur. Other people would never know it unless something severe came up. I had read a post about someone with an autistic friend. He described this friend as mostly normal, but would occasionally behave a little awkwardly. People just thought he was odd. It turned out that he had struggled with an extreme case of autism through his teens. But now that he's a man, he's learned to deal with it and not let it affect his daily life. And he doesn't advertise it or let it define who he is and what people think of him. He doesn't use it to try and get sympathy. He just lives with it.

Maybe that's what infuriates me the most. People who legitimatelly have something wrong with them, but they use that thing to try and get sympathy from other people when whatever they're suffering from isn't really that bad. I'm all for getting the help you need from family, close friends, and professionals. But if I'm just your coworker or a friend-of-a-friend, please don't burden me with your problems. You have enough support for that already and you won't get anything out of my sympathy.

I realize that it might be hypocritical for me to say all of that just after complaining about my back injury, but I think that's what this blog is for. Me getting my feelings out there in a place where almost no one will bother to read it. Very few people actually know that I have this account, and it'd be super easy to take down if it started getting too much attention.