---
title: Dark Souls
category: gaming
---
I bought Dark Souls for the PC last month. Of course I had heard a great many things about the game. About how atmospheric it is, how deep the lore is, and how difficult it is. I watched Yahtzee's video about it and decided to put it on my mental list of "games I might play someday if the right inspiration hits me." Then I found that Extra Credits had started a new show called Side Quest. Dan, the host of Extra Credits, said that he had heard enough about people getting really invested and passionate about Dark Souls and decided that he wanted some of that for himself. It was the first time I watched someone play Dark Souls, and their commentary was the bit of inspiration I was looking for. So I picked it up on Steam, slogged through some third party software to get my gamepad working with it, and set off on an adventure as the Chosen Undead.

I have been playing video games my entire life. I have not played anything that was specifically known for its difficulty, but I can't think of any games outside the Souls series that tried to use "being difficult" as a selling point. All that experience has given me good reflexes, a keen observation, and a mind for figuring out and exploiting patterns. Also, I am *very* good at managing my expectations and enhancing my experiences. My favorite example of this is Final Fantasy X-2. The vast majority of players I've talked to absolutely hated it because it "wasn't Final Fantasy enough." I watched one trailer and the opening and said to myself, "This isn't Final Fantasy. I'm not in for 60 hours of rich story-telling, a vast world, and enough grinding to make me love whetstones. I'm about to watch a 60-hour J-Pop music video." Lo and behold, that's exactly what I got and I enjoyed it immensely. I did not have the same experience with Final Fantasy XIII though. I should have played it expecting to basically watch a movie and have very little influence into the battles and character movements. I did not, and I put the game away after about 10 hours.

My point here is that, because I expected to die a lot in Dark Souls, I didn't actually find it that difficult. That's not to say I haven't died a lot. I've been banging my head against the Bell Gargoyles a lot. I just expected to die a lot. It's part of the game. And you don't really lose anything if you die a lot. Your equipment is fairly durable. All you really lose are your accumulated souls and humanity (and time), which are fairly easy to find. I'm also not ashamed to say that I looked up a couple of guides, but all they did was remind me that I had things in my arsenal, like backstab and parry, that I had forgotten about. I took down one of the Black Knights with fairly low-level equipment. It took maybe a dozen tries until I got the parry-repost timing down often enough to kill them. Honestly, it was still pretty easy. From other things that I've read, the Bell Gargoyles are the first *real* boss in the game, and even they aren't up to the likes of the Hellkite Dragon, Neto, or the butterfly.

I do wish they made the lore a little more obvious. I went down a tower and ran into Havel the Rock. It looked like he was just a knight in cool armor who could destroy me in one hit. But then I checked the wiki and found out that he took part in the events from the intro. Although now that I'm investigating further, a lot of Havel's lore is revealed in the description of the ring he drops when he's killed. So the lore is still there in the game.

That's another thing that always frustrated me about fictional worlds. Especially epic stories in movies. I'm looking at you, Star Wars. There are sometimes things in the movie that are just barely introduced or mentioned, but it turns out that they have some rich history or relation to the main characters. Maybe it only applies to epic fantasy stories, but I'm always frustrated when I learn about expanded universe lore and can't find the source. I dunno. Call it a pet peeve.