---
title: Deeeeeeee nnnnnnnnn Deeeeeee
category: tabletop
---
I'M SO EXCITED!!! I never got in to Dungeons and Dragons when it was hip to do so. I missed that whole period where the media and misinformed parents had it in their crosshairs as the latest thing their child's satan-worshipping friend from down the street would use to whisk their child over to the dark side. That's been video games for me, and my parents are (thankfully) very well-informed about those, so I have a long and rich history in virtual worlds despite the fire that violent video games has come under as the reason violence happens in the real world. But due to the circles I run in, I have many friends who were part of the DnD generation and fanbase who usually have a story or twelve about this or that funny moment that happened to them while they were exploring the mystic cave of Sloggoth looking for his book of spell-slinging so they could overthrow the criminal overlord whose pet goblin sorceror had bewitched two of the players into switching bodies every few hours. Most of them would like to get back to that, but real life and its responsibilities means that there are few opportunities to do so.

This weekend, one of those few opportunities just happens to be on its way to my dining room. Some of my wife's friends are coming over for a game of 5th edition Dungeons and Dragons and I couldn't be more excited.

I played 3.5 for a while before I moved out of my parents' house, and I listened to a podcast where they played 4th edition for a while. So I'm familiar with the two very different rulesets, even if I'm not very good that them. I haven't yet really learned how to play with people with vastly different playstyles. In the campaign that I played that lasted the longest, we had my wife who loves the roleplaying, the story, and whatever kind of messy twists she can put on it while remaining within the story, we had two guys who were kind of in it for the fun but were terrified of screwing up and facing consequences, and we had one player who was a merciless twink. I tried leading a short campaign with him as a player, and when I got his character sheet and did some math, I learned that he could roll something like 20d10 in damage at level 6 after applying all his modifiers. I found a loophole in his abilities before we started and made all my enemies non-mortal, which brought his damage down to a more reasonable 3d10 or something without gimping the rest of the characters.

Anyway, I've never played with the people who are coming over this weekend, but if my wife enjoys playing with them, I'm pretty sure I can expect a more fast-and-loose story-based style of play. So I'm going to use this space to brainstorm my character concept.

My start is that I want to play a male half-elf monk named Scias...maybe. I just realized that if you draw out the name, it sounds like "sky-ass", which may not be a problem, but I'd like to avoid potential giggles. I usually go for obscure RPGs for my character names. Scias is from Ys Seven. Maybe I can pick someone out of Dark Souls. That has some cool male names. Andre, Solaire, Petrus, Gwyn...and, who was that jester character in the DLC? Marvellous Chester. That's a little plain and not at all elf-like. Gough? Nah. The issue I'm having here is that I like to pick names that I'm reasonbly sure no one will connect with the game at first glance, so they're usually characters that aren't very prominient or at the very least, not playable. The issue with Dark Souls is that there are no such characters. The landscape is already so barren that EVERY named NPC is memorable. Laurentius, Domhall, and Logan are good candidates though. As are Tarkus, Griggs, and Kirk. I'm starting to like Kirk, although people will immediately connect it with Star Trek. Maybe Tarkus is better, but it's not a very elf-like name either. I think we'll say Logan for now.

Now, who is Logan? He's a monk, a student of the martial arts. The first idea that pops into my head for a backstory is that he is (or thinks he is) the last survivor of his monastery. He's still a novice, but he managed to save the book of forbidden arts that the masters guarded. However, it's written in a dead language that Logan can't read. He hasn't found anyone who can read it, so he's on a quest to find either a translator, or some documentation on how to translate the book and unlock its secrets so he can learn more about his art. He'll practice using the pictures and he was trained in the techniques detailed in the first chapter. So he has some basis that makes him a better fighter than your average human or elf, but he's very obviously still a novice.

So that's where he is now, and it raises two questions: why was he in the monastery in the first place and what happened to kill all the other monks there? My first thought is that he was born into the monastery. It's a huge family with everyone being related to everyone else to one degree or another. They'll marry outsiders, but everyone has some blood from a single family. Logan was the youngest child at the monastery when an evil wizard hit his older brother with a bloodline curse. The curse kills the target, and anyone above that person on their family tree. It wiped out everyone who shared in the monk bloodline who was older than Logan's brother. That included everyone at the monastery except Logan and those who married into the family. So now Logan alone has the bloodline required to learn the techniques in the forbidden book he's safeguarding. He's grown into a promising young fighter who has learned techniques from other monks as well as the secrets in the first chapter of the book.

The part I don't like about this is that it means Logan was a young monk who wasn't instilled with the values of serenity and wisdom before he lost everything. It's a really good story, but it needs some tweaking. I want to play a wise, serene character, kind of like Shepard Book from Firefly or Father Forthill from Dresden Files. Always ready with a creative twist on scripture to fit the situation and inject a little comedy despite normally being no-nonsense and expected to be serious because of his background. I like that the monastery is one big family. So let's make Logan older, give him a few children of his own, and now kill everyone in the monastery. What causes it? What would be powerful enough to take out an entire community of monks with access to forbidden techniques recorded in a dead language? It's usually a purging of some sort. Like what the Fire Nation did to the Water Tribe in The Last Airbender.

Another thought that just popped into my head was that the secrets of the book were given by an ancient demon in a deal. The demon granted the small community that would grow into the monastery four books and gave them time, say 2000 years, to produce a monk that had mastered everything in all of the books. Unfortunately, it takes a lifetime of an elf to master even one book. So the community formed the monastery and dedicated themselves to unraveling the secrets of the books. The demon came back to make good on his deal, but when no such monk was produced, the demon slaughtered the monks. Logan and three of his brothers each took a book and fled to different parts of the land. Each one would try to master his own book before the demon caught up to them, gather together, and share the techniques with each other. This would produce 4 masters of the 4 books instead of just one, and together they might be able to defeat the demon. I like this much better, but it still needs some tweaking. What did the demon get in return? Just the promise of souls if the monks couldn't deliver? What did the monks get from this deal? Prosperity? Too generic. Maybe they all were monks to begin with and were promised enlightenment? That might be a good twist. Good intentions make evil deals. Logan doesn't even have to know all of this. He just witnessed a demon slaughtering his family and an elder gave him and three of his brothers a book each and told them to flee. This is really good. Let's change it so that the books were stolen from the nether realm. That kind of solves everything. It gives the demon reason to kill everyone, a good excuse for taking so long, and lends a little bit of darkness to the origins of the monastery. The story as a whole adds urgency to Logan's quest and gives the DM plenty of opportunities to lay relevant easter eggs along our quest, assuming this campaign goes for a few sessions at least.

The name Logan isn't getting any better. It'll remind everyone of Wolverine from X-Men. I need a better name. Tarkus and Domhall are good, but sound more like orc and dwarf names. Let's look at Titan Souls, that's another game I've been playing a lot of lately. Let's see...Gol-Qayin, Mol-Qayin, Rol-Qayin could be brothers. So could Gol-Iath, Gol-Qayin, Gol-Hevel, and Gol-Set. There's also Stratus, Obello, and Elhanan. I like the quartet there: Gol-Iath, Gol-Qayin, Gol-Hevel, and Gol-Set. Although I'll probably change Gol-Iath to Gol-Lath instead. Sounds less derivitive. They're all "such-and-such Guardian of the Xth Gate" which will probably carry over well too. That can refer to the books. Heh, I'm going to change Gol-Hevel to Gol-Havel and make that my name. People can call me Havel the Rock, or just Havel for short.

So that's my character then: a male half-elf monk named Gol-Havel, Havel for short, and nicknamed Havel the Rock. He was born into the Monastery of the Gate, which is a huge family dedicated to unlocking the secrets of four ancient books of forbidden techniques stolen from the nether realm. A demon discovered the monastery and wanted the books back. The demon murdered everyone but Havel and his three brothers: Gol-Lath, Gol-Qayin, and Gol-Set. Each of them escaped with a book and fled across the land. Each one dedicated himself to unlocking the secrets of the book in their posession, with the promise that they would find each other later, share their learned secrets with each other, and confront the demon as four warriors with complete mastery of the tomes.