---
title: Friday
category: general
---
It's FRIDAY!!! This has definitely been one of the least busy weeks I've ever had. The project I'm working on now is at a point where we can only do backlog cleanup while waiting for another team to finish their latest version and hand off the integration to us. I've already finished all the work in the backlog, and that's with taking extremely long and frequent breaks. So, I've been spending my time researching other things to put in my new Cool Stuff section. I debated putting a listing of the "new" HTML5 inputs, but I got bored of that pretty quickly. You'd be surprised how hard it is to find cool javascript libraries like Reveal.js that aren't plugins and libraries for Node nowadays. I learned there are a lot of chart builders out there. Very few libraries do something cool and self-contained like Reveal does. The whole self-contained thing is the real sticker. I could probably devote a couple of pages to jQuery and its infinite usefulness, but no one would be able to actually *see* it. Maybe I'll do some cool things with jQuery UI or something.

I'm still on the high-score list for 1GAM. It's been almost three years since I started on that. I only made games for 2013, but I was one of the few who actually made one every month. True to form, most of the people who tried it out didn't last that long. Part of me hopes that they stopped because the experience led them to a better opportunity, but most of me knows that they dropped out from lack of motivation. I mean, I phoned it in a little during the last few months, but I still finished. And I got my feet wet with all those game dev tools I had been collecting.

My biggest issue made evident by all of this is a lack of ideas for projects and the lack of motivation to start stuff. I have all these skills, but nothing I really want to do with them. It would be so incredibly easy for me to set up a website with content, sell things, make some money, moderate forums, service customers, and all that. But I have no idea what the website would be for. I briefly had an idea for a shopping mobile app. You would scan the barcodes of food as you finished it and it would build you a shopping list when you went out the next time. Then I found Got Milk, which is exactly what I was going to build. That completely destroys my motivation to build anything. I've read that this shouldn't be a problem. That I should build it anyway since I might do some things better. My problem with that is that I'm extremely lenient as far as website and application usability are concerned. I will put up with far more usability issues and bugs than the average user.

Maybe this stems from my career so far. Despite having almost 8 years in the industry, I've really only worked on 7-8 projects. My first 3 and a half years had one project all to themselves. Maybe I should sit down with my Freelancer.com account and really take a hard look at what's on there. And then there was that thing where you could build things for charities and startups as practice. My Google-fu has failed me in this regard, but I'll bookmark it the next time I see it. I was asked to do some side work on a website. I don't like the way that company does business, so I'm not pursuing it further, but I had a lot of fun working on that site for a couple hours.

Maybe I'm thinking about this too much. I've heard it both ways. That programmers should try to program and improve their skills in their spare time, and that work should stop when you leave for the day to avoid burnout. I think I've struck a good balance, but I really want to use what I know to do more stuff. This might be a consequence of my work stagnating again. I've expressed desire to work on other stuff, but there just doesn't seem to be anything. Oh well... 