---
title: Cheating
category: gaming
---
First off, I mean cheating in video games. Get your head out of the gutter.

I used to cheat at games all the time. I was only able to beat Twisted Metal 2 and Doom because I found the invincibility codes. I use my Game Genie relentlessly. I was only able to beat StarCraft with cheat codes. I also use guides pretty extensively. I beat FFVII and Metal Gear Solid with guides. Breath of Fire III, Pokemon...actually, that's all I can think of. I beat Revelations: The Demon Slayer and Final Fantasy Legends III without guides. I beat all three Legend of Zelda games that I've played without guides or cheats. I beat just about all the rest of my PC games without cheating, and that list is getting longer and longer. Maybe I'm not as bad an offender as I thought.

But I definitely beat Dark Souls the first time with a guide, and I just cheated for the first time this morning on my second playthrough. I discovered the dup-souls glitch that lets you consume boss souls (and other items) repeatedly without actually losing them. I used that to gain about 30 levels and fully upgrade a couple weapons. I don't feel bad about it because I was unhappy with my character build (again) and have already beaten all the bosses except Black Dragon Kalameet at least once. I keep pouring levels into Strength despite my main weapon, a +5 Lightning Halberd, not having any actual stat scaling. But I'm going to try switching to the Black Knight Greataxe to see if that's as enjoyable. Maybe I can use it to kick Kalameet's butt this time.

I gotta say, the battles in the Dark Souls DLC are completely different from the fights in the vanilla game. The community labels them as "hyper-agressive" which makes sense. If I didn't have a good handle on how rolling lets you go through attacks, I would have a really hard time with them. Once I'm done with the DLC, I still have to beat the Four Kings. That fight is going to be cake compared to the ones I've just been through.

Manus was the first fight in a while where every death felt like progress. I could keep track of how low I got his health before I died and I definitely got it a little lower each time. The biggest mistake I made was making myself human the first couple of times and trying to summon Sif to help me. Not only did I not need her, but taking the time and attention to find her summon sign got me killed a lot. It's just a good thing that the monsters in the Abyss drop a lot of humanity.

I'm not sure what I'm going to do after this playthrough. I will have experienced just about everything this game has to offer, minus deep-diving into different builds and PvP. The Covenants offer pretty decent replayability, but only when the community is active, which is really isn't right now. Most of the people who played this have moved on to Bloodborne or something else. Depending on how much of my bonus is left over next year, I might consider picking up a PS4. The alternative is to start looking back at PC games to see if I can find something similar. Dark Souls had a community lore around it. Things that were shared by the people who played it when it was popular. I've only sort of gotten that with my playthrough. I've deep-dived into the game and discovered its secrets. I'm part of the small community of masochists who have beaten the game, although I probably won't go further than that. I'm not in the mood to try a SL1 run or anything like that. But I still kind fo want to experience a game with an awesome community from the beginning. I want to be part of the origin of GiantDad and things like that. Or at least be part of the first wave of people to laugh at it. I'm sort of getting that with FFXIV, so maybe that will turn in to something. But I don't think FFXIV will ever have something on the level of Leeroy Jenkins or the Corrupted Blood Plague. Plus, I wasn't part of FFXIV in the beginning. I joined after 2.0 and the end of the world revamp.

I can dream. In the meantime, I can cheat.