---
title: First Pico Project Complete
category: game development
---
After working on it off and on for a while, I finally finished my first Pico-8 project! I might eventually go back and add a title screen or something, but for now, the game is as playable as I want it to be. I made it for the convention website that I manage, so it follows the current theme of the site, which is "cooking." In the game, you are presented with a random Japanese dish and the recipe, and you have to find the ingredients for the recipe as fast as possible. It's dead simple, but kind of cute.

Having this one under my belt, I'm getting more comfortable with Pico8's environment and capabilities. I really need to work on getting used to shorter function and variable names. If I continue to develop using the built-in code editor, I'll need to be really conscious about my line length. The art is limited enough that I think I can do things with it. I managed to pull together some pretty decent sprites of the various dishes, if I say so myself. The sound design is going to take some getting used to. That's an entirely new skill, and I'm not sure if I'll be able to find any good advice about them other than official sources. I suppose this is where the fact that everything built for this system is open-source by default. I can download and yoink whatever sound effects and music I like, tweak it, and implement it to suit my needs.

I eventually managed to embed the game into my website here, although it cost me a 1.3MB js file, which is a little more than I bargained for. I had to resort to sticking the generated html file into an iframe on my actual website because it was the easiest way I could find to make the frame responsive. There's a bit of sound lag, but that's from my crappy laptop. I just tried it on my phone, and it had a different problem. Because I have the sidebar on my nesting page, the page will try to scroll down to the input buttons if you double-tap one of them. I'll play around with it a bit more to see if I can embed **just** the game and have it perform well on mobile. This was originally the main reason I considered Pico8 in the first place, was the ease of distribution to the web. It's much better than Love2D, and working within the system is much easier for me than Phaser. I suppose another alternative would be to finally take the plunge and actually learn Unity, which has a pretty decent web player. If I do that, and embed the game onto this site, I'll definitely want to move my scripts to a CDN instead of hosting them here on the site. I'll also have to see about splitting up the files when I publish another game here. There's a lot of common JS and CSS code that I don't have to duplicate.

All in all, it was fun! I'm interested to see what else this system can do.
