---
title: Finished with Boxes
category: art
---
I did it...

After 6 frakking months, I did it.

In September of 2019, I decided I needed a new hobby. I wanted something I could do while my son played on my computer. Something that could keep me occupied for hours at a time, but could be paused and put down at the drop of a hat. Something that didn't rely on electricity. I found a really old sketchbook I had from middle school, and I decided to start learning how to draw. At first, I wanted to do it so I didn't have to hunt around the internet for free art assets for my games. To the detriment of that, I took the advice that I should learn traditional art before trying to focus on something like game art. Truthfully, I didn't know where to start. In July of 2020, I decided I needed some direction. I had heard of [DrawABox](https://drawabox.com/) from... somewhere. I knew it was a tedious course that would teach you the basics-of-the-basics of drawing. It was boiled down to a handful of exercises that taught perspective and how to visualize objects in 3D space before translating them into 2D on a canvas. I learned about forshortening, forms and bodies, how to find midpoints in perspectives, how to preserve ratios, how to use silhouettes to imply texture rather than fill it in entirely, and how to use line weight.

Now, at the end of January of 2021, just over 6 months after I started it, I finished my last homework exercise of DrawABox!!! Truth be told, I did skip some of the challenges. I didn't do the 25 Texture challenge, or the 100 Treasure Chest challenge, or the entirety of the 25 Wheel Challenge, but I did complete every homework assignment in each of the lessons, and I did the 250 Box and 250 Cylinder Challenges. I also cheated a little and used the course as a way to get used to digital art, rather than using ink like the course insists. That meant I couldn't get critique from the instructor, but I still think I learned what the course meant to teach me.

I'm not sure how I feel about this. On the one hand, I'm extremely excited, lost, and scared about what to do now. I only vaguely know what sort of direction I want to take my art now. The entire world of physical and digital art is open to me now. I have the barest hint of a foundation, and an okay idea of how much other stuff there is to learn. I have no goal for this other than to continue having fun with it. I have an extreme aversion to spending money on this, so that restricts me to digital art in Krita and physical art in my sketchbooks with colored pencils (which I already owned) and charcoal (which I was given as a birthday present). I felt a strong pang of sadness when I deleted my DrawABox bookmarks and archived the drawings in my DropBox folder. It's only really hitting me now, the time of day when I'd usually be drawing, that I have no direction anymore.

The only thing I know I want to eventually be able to do is to draw "scenes." I absolutely don't want to be one of those artists who can only draw characters. I've seen a few of those who love creating characters, but hate drawing landscapes or environments. I just want to create cool stuff, like the opening scene to Cloudpunk, where Rania lands in Nivalis for the first time, or the fight between Zagreus and Hades in snow-swept Greece, or Alan Grant running away from a T-Rex in the jungle. Maybe I'll eventually go back and start creating art for my games, but I want to keep riding this train. I feel like this could be a good path to follow, even though the path itself is extremely aimless.

I do have another thing working for me though, and that's my wonderful wife. She graduated college with a minor in studio art, and has been waiting patiently for me to finish this course so she could help me get to where I really want to be. I told her I wanted to explore a style similar to Don Bluth films from the late 90s and early 2000s. Movies like Titan A.E., All Dogs go to Heaven, Atlantis, Road to El Dorado, Anastasia, Treasure Planet, and things like that. She rightly told me that those films have incredibly detailed environments, and that it would be a lot of work. So we decided to have me try to emulate scenes from the early DC Animated Universe cartoons. So, Gotham City Skyline, here I come!

You can check out the drawings I felt good enough about to put online over in [my gallery](https://www.deviantart.com/littlehive/gallery/75329753/drawabox-homework).
