---
title: General
category: general
---
I haven't made a General post in a long time, I think. It's at least been a while since I posted a general "life" update here, so it's probably past due.

We're now over a year into Covid quarantine. When we hit that one year, the internet started spawning a bunch of "happy one year anniversary of 'two weeks to flatten the curve' everyone!" It's a way to try and get some humor out of this horrible situation. At least the vaccine is flowing now. The curve is actually flattening, or so we're being told. My parents have gotten theirs. A bunch of my friends in front-line occupations are getting theirs. I'm mostly content to wait until appointments start appearing, although I want to sign up for some of those sites that hook you up with a facility that has leftover doses at the end of a day. My state switched from any sort of complicated tiered system for eligibility to strictly age-based eligibility. On the one hand, I understand that it's easier for people to figure out when they're eligible. On the other, I get that people in more vulnerable occupations or with more vulnerable constitutions are worried that they'll be forced out into a world that is partially vaccinated while they've gotten nothing. I just can't wait to get mine.

In the meantime, I'm still doing a bunch of stuff to keep busy.

I changed jobs back in October, and I'm finally through my trial period and filling out paperwork for a full-time hiring. Feels good to be in a more stable industry than ticket selling. The HR person actually said that they couldn't reach my old employer to verify that I had actually been employed there. I didn't want to make any assumptions, but it sounded like they laid off their reception staff and disconnected their front-desk phone number. I should really look around and see how they're doing nowadays. Most of my friends who left have since found good/better employment. My theory so far for how the company is doing is that they might have gotten enough from Christmas sales to stay afloat through the winter, and the Superbowl did happen, albeit with reduced attendance. So that might have carried them through until now. If things don't get better soon, then they're sunk.

I'm still involved in three D&D campaigns: my own, another homebrew where we work for an adventuring "company", and Icewind Dale: Rime of the Frost Maiden. The other homebrew meets pretty sporadically, but we have a great time, even though all we've done so far is kill bugs and thugs. I have a really good barbarian character going there. My Frost Maiden character is proving to be a pretty interesting Warlock. I gave him an unwilling partnership with his patron, who is trying to turn him to a life of cruelty and savagery. Our goodie-two-shoes cleric was recently cursed and turned lawful evil, which is going to be an interesting challenge for her player. We're probably going to wind up on a quest to fix her. I've reached a difficult stage in my own adventure. The party finished the initial arc of the adventure, and now they're basically doing mini quests while I figure out what the next major arc is going to be. I have some idea what the next major crisis is going to be, but haven't fleshed it out all that well yet. My problem is that I gave them a list of interesting locations where things will happen, and now I have to basically build them all at once, or wait until the party decides where they want to go next and build it afterward. I just hope they're still enjoying things.

I've gotten a little less serious about my art, I think. That might be because I'm no longer following a regimented course where I could look at the end and see what I'm in for. I'm in the "continuous improvement" stage, where the is no end, just progress. My teacher is doing a good job giving me challenging work and I understand how this is going to help me get to where I want to be. So I'm going to keep at it. I still enjoy creating stuff. I'm just a little impatient with my progress.

I'm getting more into watching Twitch streams lately. I turned on notifications on my phone so I'm not missing streams as much anymore. I have maybe a half dozen friends who stream pretty regularly. It's proving to be a good place to hang out and chat about this and that. One of my friends reminded me on stream that I told him I'd give him a key for Bump in the Night whenever I had an alpha or beta build ready. That threw a little bit of fuel on my creative fire for that particular project. I might wind up going back and finishing that one some time soon. I need to finish coding the AI for two more scenarios, do all the art, and then polish polish polish. Who knows? Maybe I am actually good enough now to create the art myself. If anything, I think my outlook on making my own art has changed to the point that I might be able to pull it off. I no longer see a problem with getting some assets from someone else, then just using them as a template and tweaking them until they're not recognizable as the originals anymore. I think my biggest blocker to that right now is that I can't run it on my dinky little personal laptop without serious performance issues. That's not much of an excuse anymore, since my work laptop is a major beast and I could just do my gamedev on that while making sure my kid doesn't get into trouble.

I almost forgot to record my memories of the Gencon Spring Showcase! I only really got a couple of things out of the weekend. I found a dungeon setting book for TTRPGs that I'm most likely going to purchase and use in my campaign, and I got a taste of playing a Druid character. Modern TTRPG playing has taken quite a turn with the creating of StartPlaying.games. It's basically like Tindr for DMs and players. Maybe it's more like saying it's like Amazon if the product was GMs and their games. Players leave reviews for GMs and star ratings. Some of the games even cost money to play in. It's interesting, but probably not something I will ever take part in, since I had almost no trouble getting my own game going, and I don't have any desire to completely fill my schedule with games. My schedule is full enough as it is, and will probably get even fuller after the world opens back up again. But the adventure itself was pretty fun. I had some real 300 IQ moments, like when I cloaked the party so we could sneak into the boss's treehouse, then I cast Spike Growth so they'd take a buttload of damage if they tried to follow us. We fought a dragon made out of a bed and I had a moment that reminded me of my wife's old games. She once had to ask "is there anything flammable in the tree." Of course, I didn't have to ask if there was anything flammable in the bed-dragon before I ignited it with Lightning Bolt. I was really proud of how I got to use my character during that session. It reminded me that, for all the coolness I put on characters where the bulk of their abilities are intrinsic to their class, it's entirely possible to make a really interesting character to fight with when all you give them is "can cast spells." I liked being a spellcaster again, and I will do it again for my future sessions, probably.

I just bought the dungeon setting book I was talking about earlier. It's called [The Maze](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/320918/The-Maze), and I hope to get a bunch of neat ideas to make my dungeons more interesting soon. I also still have that Strongholds book to read through to figure out how my players are going to do things with their new mansion, once they have the downtime to do things with it at all. So exciting!
