---
title: Pico 8
category: game development
---
Haven't written here for a while. Happy New Year!

I got myself a late Christmas present and bought a [Pico-8](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php). That phrasing makes it sound like I bought a physical thing, but it's 100% software. Pico-8 is basically like an old school gaming emulator. It's a program that can run a specific type of file and emulate how that file ran as a game in a gaming console. The difference is that there was never a physical Pico-8 console. It only exists in software form and the only games made for it are by independent developers and are almost always free.

The main difference between a Pico-8 and a "normal" game system emulator is that Pico-8 also comes with a fully integrated development environment. You can be playing a game, and with a couple keystrokes, open that game in a code, art, and sound editor right there in the console window.

I suppose the biggest "selling point" to the Pico-8 is the artificial limits it places on games made within it. Since you're basically forced to use the built-in editors, your color palette is limited to 16 colors, you have a fixed screen resolution of 128x128, your music tracks can only have 4 instrument channels, you have limited space for map tiles, sound effects, and code. If I were a different sort of person, all those limitations would sound stupid and superfluous. There's no way I could make a game even as simple as Bump in the Night on the Pico-8. The marketing blurb claims that "true creativity can only flourish under limitations," which may be true. But that's not who I am. I understand that this is a toy. Me using it is like a professional architect spending their spare time building with Legos. It's not meant to create the next blockbuster game, or even a good game (except for Flappy Bird, but you all know what a fluke that was). All of this, of course, makes Pico-8 the perfect system for me to build the secret web games that I stick into my websites.

Pico-8 games are coded in a stripped down version of Lua. So if you think it's beginner-friendly because of the above limitations, you'd be mistaken. If anything, it takes **more** experience in order to get a handle on how to build your own collision engine, animation engine, and particle engine. But, as I said before, this is a toy to me, and I think I'm going to enjoy playing around with it.
