---
title: "Crypt Crawler - Post Mortem"
category: game development
---
I've pretty much finished everything I set out to do on Crypt Crawler. There are a few features I listed as "nice-to-have" that I didn't get to, and a few suggestions from my artist that I won't be able to put in. Overall, though, the game came out REALLY well. You can download it over on the Projects page.

<b>Distibution</b>. One of the biggest issues I had last month was that XNA requires some extra stuff on the player's computer before they can play. Not to mention that it's Windows only. I understand that it's meant to build XBox games, but that wasn't what I was targeting. Love2D, on the other hand, is a much smaller library with much fewer dependencies. Add to that simple, step-by-step guides to making standalone executables/app packages and distribution with Love2D becomes trivial. Now, I still don't have a Mac, so I can't compile for distribution, but I feel a lot better about sending people to Love's website to download the program for their platform than bundling a giant install into my extremely simple game.

<b>Collision Management</b>. It seems a little specific, but I feel it's worth mentioning. This is the first time I've built a game using a third-party collision management library. In this case, <a href="https://github.com/kikito/bump.lua">Bump</a>. Now, there were a few hiccups that I've mentioned in previous posts. But once I got it set up the way I wanted, setting up collisions for a new entity type was a piece of cake.

<b>Team Building and Productivity Tools</b>. I brought in an artist this month, and boy am I glad I did. I took a crack at some of the sprites early on in development, and the first drafts that came out of the artist's printer blew mine out of the water. The game actually looks like a GAME thanks to my artist. Considering that he lives in another state, we had to pick out online productivity tools to share content and keep tasks up to date. I have experience with <a href="https://trello.com/">Trello</a> on previous projects. I love it so much that I use it for just about all my projects. Even those that I'm working on alone. It makes for a really good motivator late in development when your "Done" list starts to become longer than your "To Do" list.

For actual sharing of content, I decided it would be a waste of time to educate my artist on Subversion and the sublties of a version control system, but we still had to share content. I suggested DropBox, but he was more familiar with <a href="https://drive.google.com/">Google Drive</a>. It was fantastic. Our needs were simple, so there was no way we could really go wrong, no matter what we chose. The feature of Google Drive that was most useful was highlighting of updated files. If my artist made changes to something, 4 times out of 5, he didn't get a chance to tell me, because it was so easy to tell when he updated something. I know I could have subscribed to changes, but I actually didn't have to.

## What Could Have Gone Better

<b>Debugging</b>. Lua suffers a lot from lack of an IDE with a good debugger. I was forced to write my code in Notepad++ and, more than once, I was faced with a bug that would have been a lot easier to solve if I could pause execution and inspect the variables. Ironically, a couple Love2D-specific IDEs came out this month. I didn't want to take the time to learn a new set of tools when I was already learning so much this month. Maybe for another project.

<b>Third-Party Libraries</b>. This was more a shortcoming on my part than anything to do with the software I was using. All told, my project leverages the Bump, MiddleClass, and AnAL libraries for Lua. I made the mistake of looking for the library to fill a specific need as the need arose. Looking back, I could have just gotten a general purpose game-building library like HUMP or Zoetrope and used that. Less to learn, but more to use. Again, maybe for another project.

<b>Language Oddities</b>. First off, tables are 0-indexed and should always be 0-indexed :P. In all seriousness, the fact that Lua tables are 1-indexed tripped me up more times than I care to admit. I also couldn't seem to wrap my head around the whole tables/metatables business. If I hadn't used a library like MiddleClass, I would have been completely lost. To me, game coding essentially equals Object Oriented Programming. So I have a hard time adapting to a different paradigm.

## Final Evaluation - Love2D?

<b>Will I ever use Love2D again?</b> That will largely depend on where my life goes. Love2D is EXTREMELY portable. I can have all the tools I need to code in it at under 30MB (plus whatever I use for graphics and sound effects). As things stand right now, I have a very stable work station at home. My desktop computer isn't going anywhere, and I'm home more often than not. If my life changes so I'm spending a lot of free time in front of computers that aren't mine, then yes, Love2D will become my go-to game building engine. For now, however, I finally have an excuse to take it off my thumb drive.

<b>What's next?</b> I'm not sure. I have a basic game idea that I could use for next month's project, but I'd rather wait for the next theme. The theme comes out in a couple days and waiting for that springboard served me well this month. As for the toolset, I think I'll give <a href="http://www.stencyl.com/">Stencyl</a> a try. I used GameMaker 8 for January, and two raw-coding engines for February and March. I think it's time to try out one of the game-builders again. I'll probably miss having version control, but I did go all this month without a debugger.