---
title: "Ant Drops and Stencyl"
category: game development
---
After only 2 hours of work, I have completed my April 1GAM entry: <a href="http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/view/615087">Ant Drops</a>. It's...well, to put it bluntly, extremely simple for me. You are an ant. Your mission is to catch acorns. If one hits the ground, you lose and are sent back to the title screen. Seriously, compared to last month's project, this almost wasn't worth the time. However, I believe that the fact that this only took me 2 hours to make means that I've evolved to another level of game development.

I have a friend who frequents comic book conventions. He carries a sketch book with him. While he's at the convention, he makes a point of visiting the talented artists that are there to sign autographs and promote their work. Instead of asking them for their autograph, he asks them for a sketch. He's told me that most of them only take about a minute and a half to sketch out a quick drawing. Looking at the quality of some of these sketches, I almost can't believe they were done in that short of time. With this game, as simple as it may be, I feel I have reached that level of mastery. I know I still have a long way to go, but it's a real comforting thought.

I used Stencyl for this project (which may have contributed to the extremely short development time). I have to say that I was not impressed. On my project page, you will note that the entry for Ant Drops includes "9 Days of agonizing brainstorming." I went through around 4 different ideas for games. Each time, I had to shelve the idea because Stencyl didn't support a feature I needed for that idea. First, I wanted to resurrect the Candlehead idea, but Stencyl doesn't support changing an actor's collision bounds without scaling the sprite. Then I wanted to make a basic 2D Action-Platformer (kinda like Castlevania or Spelunky), but I couldn't figure out how to make a character swing a sword with its own hitbox. It is very likely that I've just become used to the freedom that coding by hand gets you that I couldn't deal with the constraints using a game builder puts on you. Even building Ant Drops, I had to spend 20 minutes crafting a moderately complex "if" statement that would have taken me around 30 seconds if I were coding by hand.

I don't want to write Stencyl off completely. There was a lot of stuff I didn't have to think about when building Ant Drops, like collision handling and scene transition. The pre-made game starter kits and resources/assets available at StencylForge have a ludicrous amount of potential. The free version only limits what platforms you can publish to, unlike GameMaker which limits the number of resources you can have in your game. Stencyl is built on top of Flixel, which is on my list of toolsets to try out this year. There's a good chance a better understanding of Flixel will make me more comfortable with Stencyl. At the very least, I'll be able to code around any limitations in the Stencyl drag-and-drop framework. Out of the 12 projects/months that I'll be building this year, I have toolsets for 10 of them. There's a moderate likelihood that I'll come back to Stencyl.

Sidenote: At time of writing, I have the 48th highest score on the OneGameAMonth website. That's out of almost 5000 developers. WOOHOO!!