---
title: "Smoke Rush - Post Mortem"
category: game development
---
My second 1GAM game is finalized and uploaded to project hosting. You can get to the project hosting page <a href="http://code.google.com/p/02-february-1gam-constriction/">here</a> or through the Projects link at the top of this blog. Considering that there were 1120 submissions for January and there are only 153 for February (at time of writing. It's only the 23rd), I'm very pleased that I managed to stick with this for another month. I haven't been thinking "I have to make the best games ever!" I've just been thinking "I have to make a lot of games this year." Maybe that's led me to be a little accepting of bad quality in my games, but I feel better knowing that I can call them "finished." Already, I've tripled the number of completed projects I have here. That's incredible!

I learned a lot during this project. It was the first XNA project I've completed, the first time I used someone else's library (<a href="http://www.xnaparticles.com/">DPSF</a>), and the first time I publicized my game on more than one social network. The game just went live about 45 minutes ago, so I'm not sure how that last one will turn out, but I'll talk about the first 2.

Considering the limitations I faced getting this to run on other people's computers, this will probably be the last time I use XNA on a project. It's meant to build games for the XBox, where you don't have the issue of dependencies. XNA relies on having .NET Framework and XNA Framework installed. And although it comes with a handy one-click publisher that creates an installer that will automatically go out and install those two, my experience says users do not like to install things. Especially if they don't know what they're for. I strove to make my previous games as stand-alone as possible, and I don't like that XNA depends on things that not everyone has. I'm sad to say this about XNA, especially since C# has become the language I'm most comfortable with and the one I use at my day job, but unless I get really good user feedback about the install process, I'm taking XNA out of my toolbelt. It's not like I don't have other options. I have a sizable collection of other game making software I can use. Maybe I'll pick up HTML5 as a development platform. There are a whole bunch of libraries being written for it and Javascript is second to C# in languages I use at my day job. Or maybe I'll switch to Lua/Love2D. It has distributions for other platforms and has a stable (if small) community.

It also doesn't help that XNA has been abandoned by Microsoft. Although I hear that MonoGame is pretty good.

On the other hand, XNA was a dream to develop with. The documentation is really in-depth and I didn't run in to any weird bugs. In my own code, anyway. Trying to get DPSF to run the way I wanted was a little trying at times. I may have implemented things wrong, but it seems a little weird that you have to build a new ParticleSystem class for each effect you want. One really annoying thing is that there doesn't seem to be a way to define the speed of particles separately from the direction. Each particle only has a Velocity and you can only define one Min and one Max velocity. This means that, if your emitters are configured to release particles in all directions, you won't get a circle shape, you'll get a square. That made it extremely difficult to get the explosion effects I wanted. Other than that, it was an okay library to use, but I don't think I'll be using it in the future either.

At the end of the day, I'm just glad I was able to crank this project out in a month. It gives me hope for the rest of the year. At least for myself. The 1GAM event will probably do just fine for the whole year, but I predict that the community will experience a lot of turnover and drop off.

Now I just have to come up with an idea for next month...