---
title: "TOP SCORE!!"
category: game development
---
Yep, that's no joke right there. That screenshot is taken from 1GAM's high scores page and you're looking at this humble developer's comfy place at the very top.

1GAM's greatest feature is the achievement system. I've always been a believer that gamification is a good way to improve the performance of people in almost any organization, but 1GAM is the first time I've actually participated in something with achievements that wasn't, you know, a game.

1GAM awards achievements for a variety of things: building each game, building multiple games in a row, posting a link to your blog, to your DeviantArt profile, your NewGrounds profile, your Google+ profile, your Kongregate profile, joining a game jam, posting a review of another 1GAMmer's game, posting sales figures for your 1GAM game, giving an #IndieHighFive to a fellow developer, etc, etc, etc. Each achievement has a point total associated with it, and you level up at certain point totals. I submitted my September game early this month, and I had enough other achievements that it shot me to the top of the high score board!!

Originally, I had thought there was some sort of calculation error, especially because the guys in 3rd and 5th place have already finished 12 games. I thought there was no way I had more points than them. Then I remembered a new set of achievements that was introduced around June: points for submitting a game that came from the optional theme for any month. That was enough for me.

Before I realized this, I had contacted McFunkyPants, the founder of 1GAM, about my concerns that there was a calculation error. After sorting it out and proving that it was not a fluke, McFunkyPants had this very encouraging tweet for me.

I am very proud to be part of this event. Even if I'm not the most social participant.