---
title: "Methods of Learning"
category: archive
---
So I've taken the plunge and started learning <a href="http://unity3d.com/">Unity3D</a>. The program has become the be-all-end-all of 3D game builders. As a starting point, I got a copy of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Unity-Development-Example-Beginners-Guide/dp/1849690545/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1358090179&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=unity+game+development+by+example">Unity Development By Example</a> for Christmas to get me started.

<div class="separator" style="clear: both; text-align: center;"></div>The book is good. It does a decent job of explaining things as it goes, if you manage to read through all of it, that is. I just couldn't follow it. It was...boring. And confusing, considering that chapters 1 and 2 start you on a project and get it 1/3 finished, the book jumps to another project for chapter 3, chapters 4 and 5 jump back to the first project, chapter 6 jumps back to the project from chapter 3, chapters 7 and 8 start a new project, and chapters 9 and 10 finish the project from chapters 1-2/4-5. Those aren't the exact chapter-to-project mapping, but you get the idea. This isn't my first "development by example" book. The other one got me started on XNA, so I know they're normally good for something. But this one just didn't do it for me.

So, I was about to dive into another Unity book, when I decided to try out a video tutorial instead. My first stop was <a href="http://www.cookingwithunity.com/">Cooking with Unity</a>, which I consider a household name when it comes to learning Unity. I was a little disappointed when I learned that their early videos used an older version of Unity. Plus, each video is an hour+. So I kept looking.

I struck gold with <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYqzz1dy3Ak&amp;list=SPE5C2870574BF4B06">BergZergArcade</a>. The videos are short (really short), so I can sit down for a session without worrying about not having an hour to spare the entire thing. The other upside, and I assume this is true for all video tutorials, is that the code is written and run right in front of you. More than once, while reading through Game Development By Example, I found that I had missed a line of code or, even worse, the code in the book had the error. At one point, I spent hours trying to figure out why the book-provided model was facing the wrong way during gameplay. It turned out I had to mess with the model import settings, something the book neglected to mention I could do, in order to correct the issue. During the videos, however, any errors I notice are also experienced by the narrator and corrected very quickly.

I'm definitely learning a lot more through the video tutorials method than I was with the book method. We'll see if I learn enough in time for GGJ this month.