---
title: "New Project"
category: archive
---
I'm thinking that I'm probably far enough along in a new project that I can post about it and have a reasonably good chance of seeing it through to the end. I've never gotten in to RogueLikes or Dungeon Crawlers, but I think that's because they never seemed all that...varied. Then, I played Torchlight. And I was blown away. I had never had so much fun just trouncing through a dungeon, waiting to see what the next awesome ability I would unlock was. I enjoyed the pointless sidequests and it actually had a pretty good story. That spurred me on a quest of my own, to find and try any hack-n-slash dungeon crawler I could get my hands on. Back then, I was spending a lot of my time on computers where I couldn't install anything. So I searched for the smallest dungeon crawler I could find that had a reasonable amount of visuals and variety. I found <a href="http://www.desktopdungeons.net/">Desktop Dungeons</a>. A small, randomly generated single-floor roguelike. I still play it, almost 3 years later.

I also remembered reading an inspiring article: <a href="http://www.gamedev.net/page/resources/_/creative/game-design/how-to-build-a-game-in-a-week-from-scratch-with-r2259">How to Build a Game in a Week from Scratch</a>. The author gives himself 40 hours of development time and limits himself to free tools. At the end of it all, he has a fairly buggy, but still impressive game. That was all I needed. I started work on my newest project. Quill's Gambit. A procedurally generated, hack-n-slash, dungeon crawler. Nothing too complicated. I need to be able to complete this in the small amount of spare time I seem to have nowadays. So here goes!