---
title: "This is turning out to be pretty scary"
category: archive
---
I have to say, the sounds make a HUGE difference in the dynamic of a game. I've just about completed the first two levels of The Great Inkscape and added sound. A sound like a monster growling plays when you get within a certain distance of one of the ghosts and a sound like a monster screaming plays whenever you get a ghost soaked in ink, at which point they will chase you until the ink wears off. I'm the developer. Everything you play, I put there. And even I get nervous and scared when I play this game.

As for general progress. I've animated the main character a little. I'll have to change the title screen as he's not a walking blue box anymore. I've added enemies in the form of Ghosts. Normally, the ghosts are white (and therefore, invisible). They pass in front of the player, so if the player feels brave enough, he can just walk right past them. This has the disadvantage of not being able to freely shoot ink out. The Ghosts are programmed to switch direction upon encountering a drop, a wall, or a hazard/spike. When enraged by the player shooting them with ink, their movement speed triples and they pursue the player. They will jump over walls and drops while pursuing, but will not avoid hazards. This should open up some interesting opportunities for the player to lure a Ghost into a trap. I've also added messages that are drawn into the background of the level. I figure they would be a good way to explain the game to the player. Currently, only the first level has any messages. I may not bother putting more in as one level is really all I need to explain things (I think). Here are some new screenshots: